{\rtf1\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Tms Rmn;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helv;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f6\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Serif;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Sans Serif;}{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times;}{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica;}
{\f10\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 System;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 CG Times;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Univers;}{\f14\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Univers Condensed;}{\f15\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Antique Olive;}
{\f16\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Albertus Medium;}{\f17\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Albertus Extra Bold;}{\f18\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Letter Gothic;}{\f19\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Marlett;}
{\f21\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f22\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f23\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f24\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Monotype Sorts;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}
{\f26\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Monotype Corsiva;}{\f27\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 MT Extra;}{\f28\fmodern\fcharset2\fprq1 MS LineDraw;}{\f29\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Algerian;}{\f30\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Rounded MT Bold;}
{\f31\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Brush Script MT;}{\f32\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Colonna MT;}{\f33\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Footlight MT Light;}{\f34\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Impact;}{\f35\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Wide Latin;}
{\f36\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Matura MT Script Capitals;}{\f37\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 HelvC;}{\f38\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesC;}{\f39\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Book Antiqua;}{\f40\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Bookman Old Style;}
{\f41\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Century Gothic;}{\f42\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Century Schoolbook;}{\f43\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Braggadocio;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Britannic Bold;}{\f45\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Desdemona;}
{\f46\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Kino MT;}{\f47\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Playbill;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq1 MS Dialog;}{\f49\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 CG Times (WN);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f5\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb60\keepn \b\f5 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\li360\ri360\sb120 \b\f5 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\sa60\keepn \b\f5 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s4\li360 \f5\ul \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}{\s5\sb240\sa240\keepn\tx2268 \b\f5\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\sb240\sa60 \i\f5\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\sb240\sa60 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{\s8\sb240\sa60 
\i\f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\sb240\sa60 \i\f5\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj\sb120\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20\uldb\cf11 \sbasedon16\snext15 Txt_C_1st;}{\s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext16 Text;}{\s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext17 Text_Hang;}{\s18\fi-1588\li1701\sb120\tx1701\tx2552 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext18 Declaration;}{\s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext19 progr;}{\s20\fi-567\li851 \f11\fs20 
\sbasedon19\snext20 ProgrHang;}{\s21 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext21 footnote text;}{\*\cs22 \additive\super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s23\qj\keep \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 Table Text;}{\s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 
\sbasedon0\snext24 Table Title;}{\s25\qj\fi-851\li851 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext25 Table_Hang;}{\s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext26 Text 1st;}{\s27 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext27 Text Cond;}{\s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \sbasedon16\snext0 
Topic Jump Heading;}{\s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \sbasedon28\snext29 Topic PopUp Heading;}{\s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 \sbasedon16\snext30 Topic Reference;}{\s31\sa120\keep \f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext31 Text NonWrap;}{
\s32\fi-284\li284\sa60\tx284\tx567 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext32 Text_Bullet;}{\s33\fi-284\li1135\sa60\tx1134\tx1418 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon32\snext33 Text_Bullet Ind;}{\s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon16\snext34 Text Flow;}{
\s35\fi-851\li851\tx851 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon41\snext35 Text Cond 1H;}{\s36\li851\keep \f11\fs20 \sbasedon19\snext36 ProgrInd;}{\s37\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \sbasedon28\snext37 Topic 1Jump Heading;}{\s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext38 
Progr Section;}{\s39\keep\tx284\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext39 Text NWCond;}{\s40\fi-426\li426 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext40 Q_A;}{\s41\qj\fi-1701\li1701\tx1701 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext41 Text Cond Hang;}{\s42\fi-851\li851 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext42 
C H;}{\s43\li851\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon44\snext43 Table_Ind;}{\s44\li851\sa120\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext44 Text_Ind;}{\s45\li851\sa120\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon43\snext45 
Table_Ind_Last;}{\s46\fi-851\li1702\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon47\snext46 Table_IndHang;}{\s47\fi-851\li1702\sa120\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon44\snext47 Text_Ind_Hang;}{
\s48\keep\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3261\tx3402\tx5387\tx6521 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext48 Table_NonWrap;}{\s49\li1701\keep\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3261\tx3402\tx5387\tx6521 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon43\snext49 Table_NW_2Ind;}{
\s50\li851\keep\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3261\tx3402\tx5387\tx6521 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon43\snext50 Table_NW_Indent;}{\s51\fi-1701\li1701\sa120\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext51 Text2Hang;}{\s52\li1701\sa120\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 
\f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext52 Text2Ind;}{\s53 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon54\snext53 C;}{\s54\sa120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext54 M;}{\s55\fi-1418\li1418\sb120\sa120\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\fs20 \sbasedon17\snext55 Text Declaration;}{
\s56\fi-1418\li1418\sb120\sa120\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon55\snext56 Text1 Declaration;}{\s57\fi-1701\li1701\sa120\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon17\snext57 Text_2Hang;}{\s58\keep \f5\fs18\expnd4\expndtw20 
\sbasedon16\snext58 Text Table;}{\s59\qc\sa240\keep \i\f5\fs18\expnd4\expndtw20 \sbasedon16\snext59 Table;}{\s60\keep\tx1418\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon16\snext60 TextCondNW;}{\s61\qj\li851 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext61 Text C Ind;}{
\s62\fi-851\li851\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon17\snext62 TextCondHang;}{\s63\fi-1701\li1701 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon17\snext63 TextCond2Hang;}{\s64\fi-567\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon47\snext64 Txt_0_IH;}{\s65\fi-283\li567\sa60\tx567 
\f5\fs20 \sbasedon33\snext65 Text_Bull_0_Ind;}{\s66\li1701\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon52\snext66 Text2Ind Cond;}{\s67\qj\fi-567\li851\tx851\tx1701 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 Txt_C_0_IH;}{\s68\sb120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon53\snext68 C 1;}{
\s69\keep \f5\fs20 \sbasedon53\snext69 C Nw;}{\s70\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon54\snext70 M 1;}{\s71\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon16\snext71 M H;}{\s72\fi-851\li851\sb120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon42\snext72 C H 1;}{
\s73\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext73 context;}{\s74\li851 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon53\snext74 C I;}{\s75\sa120 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon53\snext75 C L;}{\s76\fi-851\li851\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon71\snext76 M H 1;}{
\s77\sa240 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon54\snext77 M L;}{\s78\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext78 context1;}{\s79\sa80\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext79 context11;}{\s80\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 
\b\f5\cf2 \snext80 context3;}{\s81\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext81 context4;}{\s82\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext82 context_hooks;}{\s83\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 
\snext83 context_filesystem;}{\s84\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext84 context_binary;}{\s85\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext85 context_input;}{\s86\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 
\snext86 Miscell;}{\s87\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext87 OS_related;}{\s88\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext88 context_internal;}{\s89\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext89 
machine_lowlevel;}{\s90\sa80\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext90 MSG;}{\s91\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext91 Output;}{\s92\sa80\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext92 String_hand;}{
\s93\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext93 edit_textmode;}{\s94\sa80\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext94 Screen_hand;}{\s95\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext95 input;}{
\s96\sa80\keepn\tx851\tx1701\tx2552\tx3402 \b\f5\cf2 \snext96 windows_sys;}{\s97\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \snext97 BGI;}{\s98\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext98 header;}{\s99\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext99 
footer;}{\s100\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \snext100 CreateButton;}{\*\cs101 \additive\fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{\s102 \f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext102 annotation text;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}{Serge Mukhin;}{Alexander Doronin;}{Alexander Gorlov;}
{Serge Mukhin\'00\'11Alexander Doronin\'00e\'fbz\'f1;}{Alexander Doronin\'00\'0cSerge Mukhin\'00%\'fbl\'8f;}{Serge Mukhin\'00\'11Alexander Doronin\'00%\'fbj7;}{Alexander Doronin\'00\'10Alexander Gorlov\'00%\'fa\'83^;}
{Alexander Gorlov\'00\'0cSerge Mukhin\'00%\'fa\'82\'db;}{Serge Mukhin\'00\'11Alexander Doronin\'00%\'fa\'82H;}{Alexander Doronin\'00\'0cSerge Mukhin\'00e\'fa\\\'f7;}{Alexander Doronin\'00\'0cSerge Mukhin\'00%\'fbl\'89;}
{Alexander Doronin\'00\'10Alexander Gorlov\'00%\'fa\'83\\;}{Serge Mukhin\'00\'11Alexander Doronin\'00%\'fa\'82G;}{Andrew Koutchoukov;}{Andrew Koutchoukov\'00\'0cSerge Mukhin\'00e\'fb|\'88;}{Andrew Koutchoukov\'00\'0cSerge Mukhin\'00e\'fb|\'89;}
{Jonathan Lerwill;}{Andrew Kuchukov;}{Safro Elisabeth;}{Jakova Uliana;}}{\info{\title # $ K + The Borland Graphics Interface}{\author Andrew Koutchoukov}{\operator Andrew Koutchoukov}{\creatim\yr1995\mo12\dy19\hr23\min25}
{\revtim\yr1995\mo12\dy19\hr23\min25}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages144}{\nofwords15187}{\nofchars86571}{\vern49203}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0{\*\template D:\\WINWORD\\TEMPLATE\\ROBOHELP.DOT}
\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} The_Borland_Graphics_Interface}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} The Borland Graphics Interface}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} The Borland Graphics Interface
}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super {\*\bkmkstart TITLE}!{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',` Visual_Prolog_Contents')")}} BGI
{\*\bkmkend TITLE} Fundamentals
\par \pard\plain \s71\fi-851\li851\sa60 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\f37\uldb\cf11 What Is the BGI?}{\v What_Is_the_BGI}
\par {\uldb\cf11 About Video Modes}{\v Some_Words_about_Video_Modes}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Color Control}{\v Color_Control}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Drawing and Painting}{\v Drawing_and_Painting}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Initializing/Shutting Down the BGI System}{\v Initializing_Shutting_Down_the_BGI_System}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Manipulating Pixels and Images}{\v Manipulating_Pixels_and_Images}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Outputting Text in Graphics Mode}{\v Outputting_Text_in_Graphics_Mode}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Screens and Viewports}{\v Screens_and_Viewports}
\par {\uldb\cf11 The Current Position (CP)}{\v The_Current_Position_CP}
\par \pard \s71\fi-851\li851\sa180 {\uldb\cf11 Using the BGI in Your Applications}{\v Using_the_BGI_in_Your_Applications}
\par \pard \s71\fi-851\li851\sa60 {\b\uldb\cf11 BGI Predicates in Alphabetical Order}{\v BGI_Predicates_Alphabetical_List}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0\fs20 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} What_Is_the_BGI}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} What Is the BGI?}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} What Is the BGI?}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} What Is the BGI?
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Visual Prolog's BGI system provides over 70 graphics predicates, ranging from higher-level calls (like {\uldb\cf11 setviewport}{\i\v setviewport_5}{\b\i , }{\uldb\cf11 bar3d}{\i\v bar3d_6}, and {\uldb\cf11 drawpoly}{
\i\v drawpoly_1}) to bit-oriented predicates (like {\uldb\cf11 getpixel}{\v getpixel_3} and {\uldb\cf11 putpixel}{\i\v putpixel_3}
). The BGI graphics system allows you to draw lines, arcs, circles, polygons, and other shapes; it supports numerous fill and line styles; and it provides several text fonts that you can magnify, justify, and orient horizontally or vertically.
\par Visual Prolog supplies only bindings to the Borland Graphics Interface (See the Visual Prolog ..\\BGIBIND subdirectories).
\par \pard\plain \s54\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\ul This means :}
\par \pard\plain \s32\fi-284\li284\sa60\tx284\tx567 \f5\fs20 {\f1 \'b7\tab }that Visual Prolog {\ul supplies}
 BGI.CON and BGI.PRE files that contain declarations of constants, domains, and predicates you must include in your program for using of BGI system. Add path to these files {\b ;..\\BGIBIND\\INCLUDE} into your {\b Options|Project|Directories|Libraries}
 list edit entry. Also Visual Prolog supplies BGIBIND.LIB libraries that contain  {\i gluecode }for calling of some BGI functions. You must specify that the library BGIBIND.LIB should be linked in. Add {\b ;..\\BGIBIND\\LIB\\DOS\\BGIBIND.LIB}
 for realmode DOS programs and {\b ;..\\BGIBIND\\LIB\\DOS\\BGIBIND.LIB }for protected mode DOS programs into {\b Options|Project|Directories|Libraries} list edit entry.
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }and that Visual Prolog {\ul does not contain}
 the Borland Graphics Interface libraries (*.LIB files), graphics device drivers (*.BGI files), stroked character fonts (*.CHR files) and other files of BGI system. So if your Prolog programs must use BGI than you must install on your computer Borland C++
. Then you must specify that the C++ BGI library BGI.LIB should be linked in. Add into {\b Options|Project|Directories|Libraries} list edit entry path and name of the BGI library. 
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 More detailed information on how to use BGI bindings you will find in Visual Prolog  \\BGIBIND\\README.TXT file. See also {\uldb\cf11 Building and Running a Stand-Alone BGI Executable}{\v 
Building_and_Running_a_Stand_Alone_BGI_Executable}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 BGI.CON contains constants declarations to improve the readability of your programs. This allows you to use symbolic names that correspond to the action of the argument rather than entering an integer value. For e
xample, BGI.CON defines {\b\i PI} = 3.14159265359 and {\b\i red} = 4; most of the other values used in the BGI are also defined in BGI.CON in terms of their symbolic names.
\par You should load BGI.CON and BGI.PRE into the {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt Visual Prolog}} editor and take a look at them before trying to do anything substantial with the BGI predicates.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Some_Words_about_Video_Modes}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Some Words about Video Modes}} {
\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Some Words about Video Modes}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Some Words about Video Modes
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Every PC has some kind of video adapter. This can be a Monochrome Display Adapter (MDA) for a basic text-only display, or it can be one capable of 
displaying graphics, such as a Color Graphics Adapter (CGA), an Enhanced Graphics Adapter (EGA), or a Hercules Monochrome Graphics Adapter. Each adapter can operate in a variety of modes; the mode specifies whether the screen displays 80 or 40 columns (te
xt mode only), the display resolution (graphics mode only), and the display type (color, monochrome, or black & white).
\par \pard\plain \s32\fi-284\li284\sa60\tx284\tx567 \f5\fs20 {\f1 \'b7\tab }In {\b\i text mode}{\b ,} your PC's screen is divided into cells, usually 80 columns wide by 25 lines high. Each cell consists of an attribute and 
a character. The character is the displayed ASCII character, while the attribute specifies how the character is displayed (its color, intensity, etc.). In text mode you can use {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt Visual Prolog}}
's screen- and window-handling predicates).
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }In {\b\i graphics mode}{\b ,} your PC's screen {\deleted\revauth17\revdttm-2047518179 is divided into}{\revised\revauth17\revdttm-2047518179 consists of} pixels, which is short for {\i picture elements}
; each pixel displays a single dot on the screen. The number of pixels (the resolution) depends on the type of video adapter connected to your system and the mode that adapter is in. In graphics mode, you use {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt 
Visual Prolog}}'s BGI predicates to create graphic displays on the screen: You can draw lines and shapes, fill enclosed areas with patterns, and control the color of each pixel.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 In text mode, on-screen locations are given in rows and columns, where rows increase from top to bottom, and columns increase from left to right. {\revised\revauth17\revdttm-2047518179 
\par }In graphics mode, on-screen locations are given as ({\i x,y}) coordinates, with the upper-left corner in position (0,0); the x coordinates increase from left to right, and the y coordinates increase from top to bottom.
\par The screen's operating mode is defined when your program calls one of the mode-defining predicates ({\uldb\cf11 restorecrtmode}{\v restorecrtmode_0}{\b ,}{\b\i  }{\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\i\v initgraph_5}, or {\uldb\cf11 setgraphmode}{\i\v setgraphmode_1}).

\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Initializing_Shutting_Down_the_BGI_System}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Initializing/Shutting Down the BGI System}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Initializing/Shutting Down the BGI System}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Initializing/Shutting Down the BGI System
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16  See also {\uldb\cf11 The Predicates}{\v Initializing_Shutting_Down_the_BGI_System_Predicates}
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 To start the graphics system, you must first call the {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\v initgraph_5} predicate. {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\v initgraph_5} loads 
the appropriate graphics driver puts the system into graphics mode. These files are the graphics drivers:
\par {\b\i Driver File Constants Declared in BGI.CON
\par }\pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1985\tx3686\tx4962\tx5670 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 OBJ File\tab File \tab Name \tab Value\tab Description
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1560\cellx3119\cellx4962\cellx5670\cellx7088 \pard\plain \intbl \f5\fs20 CGAF.OBJ\cell CGA.BGI\cell cga_driver_far\cell 1\cell CGA\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1560\cellx3119\cellx4962
\cellx5670\cellx7088 \pard \intbl CGAF.OBJ\cell CGA.BGI\cell cga_driver_far\cell 2\cell MCGA\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl EGAVGAF.OBJ\cell EGAVGA.BGI\cell egavga_driver_far\cell 3\cell EGA\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl EGAVGAF.OBJ\cell 
EGAVGA.BGI\cell egavga_driver_far \cell 4\cell EGA64\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl EGAVGAF.OBJ\cell EGAVGA.BGI\cell egavga_driver_far\cell 5\cell EGAMONO\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl IBM8514F.OBJ\cell IBM8514.BGI\cell ibm8514_driver_far\cell 
6\cell IBM 8514\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl HERCF.OBJ\cell HERC.BGI\cell herc_driver_far\cell 7\cell Hercules\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl ATTF.OBJ\cell ATT.BGI\cell att_driver_far\cell 8\cell ATT\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl 
EGAVGAF.OBJ\cell EGAVGA.BGI\cell egavga_driver_far\cell 9\cell VGA\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx1560\cellx3119\cellx4962\cellx5670\cellx7088 \pard \intbl PC3270F.OBJ\cell PC3270.BGI\cell pc3270_driver_far\cell 10\cell PC-3270
\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 The graphics driver corresponding to your PC's graphics card must be in the current directory, or you must give {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\v initgraph_5} a path to where the driver is located.

\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 You can tell initgraph to use a particular graphics driver and mode, or to auto-detect the attached video adapter at run time, and pick the corresponding driver. If you tell initgraph to auto-
detect, it calls detectgraph to select a graphics driver and mode. 
\par {\b Note}: If you have an IBM 8514, the autodetection logic won't recognize it as such. See {\uldb\cf11 Using the BGI with RGB Graphics Cards}{\v Using_the_BGI_with_RGB_Graphics_Cards}
\par Normally, the initgraph predicate loads a graphics driver by allocating memory for the driver, then loading the appropriate .BGI file into memory from disk at run time. As an alternative to this dynamic loading scheme, you can link a graphics driver file 
(or several of them) directly into your executable program file, by adding the compiler directive {\uldb\cf11 bgidriver}{\v bgidriver_compiler_directive} to the top of your program. 
\par After determining which graphics driver to use (perhaps via {\uldb\cf11 detectgraph}{\i\v detectgraph_2}), {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\cf11  }{\v initgraph_5 }checks to see if the desired driver has been loaded at compile time by means of the {\b bgidriver}
 compiler directive. If so, {\i initgraph} uses the driver directly from memory. Otherwise, {\i initgraph} allocates memory for the driver and loads the .BGI file from disk.
\par {\b Note}: Using {\b bgidriver} is an advanced programming technique, not recommended for novice programmers.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Initializing_Shutting_Down_the_BGI_System_Predicates}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Initializing/Shutting Down the BGI System Predicates}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Initializing/Shutting Down the BGI System Predicates}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}}
 {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Initializing/Shutting Down the BGI System Predicates
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 In this topic we introduce the BGI predicates used when initializing and shutting down the graphics system.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 closegraph}{\v closegraph}
\par {\uldb\cf11 detectgraph/2}{\v detectgraph_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getdrivername/1}{\v getdrivername_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getgraphmode/1}{\v getgraphmode_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getmaxmode/1}{\v getmaxmode_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getmodename/2}{\v getmodename_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getmoderange/3}{\v getmoderange_3}
\par {\uldb\cf11 graphdefaults/0}{\v graphdefaults_0}
\par {\uldb\cf11 initgraph/5}{\v initgraph_5}
\par {\uldb\cf11 restorecrtmode/0}{\v restorecrtmode_0}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setgraphmode/1}{\v setgraphmode_1}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} The_Current_Position_CP}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Current Position (CP) in BGI}} {\cs22\super 
K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Current Position; CP}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Current Position (CP)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 The current position (CP) is the {\deleted\revauth17\revdttm-2047518179 viewport or}
 screen location where the next graphics output will occur. For example, you can print text at the current position, or you can draw a line for a distance relative to the current position.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 You move the CP to a specified location with {\uldb\cf11 moveto}{\i\v moveto_2}, and move it a specified distance with {\uldb\cf11 moverel}{\i\v moverel_2}. The predicates {\uldb\cf11 getx}{\v getx_1} and {\uldb\cf11 gety}{
\v gety_1} return the current (viewport-relative) x and y coordinates of the CP, respectively. {\uldb\cf11 getmaxx}{\v getmaxx_1} and {\uldb\cf11 getmaxy}{\v getmaxy_1}
 bind their arguments to the maximum x and y values for the current graphics driver and mode.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b The Current Position Predicates
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 getx/1}{\v getx_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 gety/1}{\v gety_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 moveto/2}{\v moveto_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 moverel/2}{\v moverel_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getmaxx/1}{\v getmaxx_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getmaxy/1}{\v getmaxy_1}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Drawing_and_Painting}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Drawing and Painting}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Drawing and Painting}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Drawing and Painting
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 With {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt Visual Prolog}}'s BGI drawing and painting predicates, you can draw colored lines, arcs, circles, ellipses, rectangles, pie slices, 2- and 3-dimensiona
l bars, polygons, and regular or irregular shapes based on combinations of these. You can fill any bounded shape (or any region surrounding such a shape) with one of 11 predefined patterns, or your own user-defined pattern.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 Lines}{\v Lines}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Circles, Etc.}{\v Circles_Etc}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Rectangles, Polygons, and Bar Graphs}{\v Rectangles_Polygons_and_Bar_Graphs}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Filling}{\v Filling}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Lines}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Lines}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {
\cs22\super K} Lines}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Lines

\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 You can control the thickness and style of the drawing line with {\i setlinestyle}. To find out the current line style and thickness, you call {\i getlinesettings}. With the predicates {\i line}, {\i linerel}, and {
\i lineto}, you can draw a line between two specified points: from the CP some specified distance, or between the CP and a specified point.
\par {\b Lines Drawing Predicates
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 getlinesettings/3}{\v getlinesettings_3}
\par {\uldb\cf11 line/4}{\v line_4}
\par {\uldb\cf11 linerel/2}{\v linerel_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 lineto/2}{\v lineto_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setlinestyle/3}{\v setlinestyle_3}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setwritemode/1}{\v setwritemode_1}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Circles_Etc}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Circles, Etc.}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Circles, Etc.}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Circles, Etc.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 You draw unfilled curved shapes with the predicates {\uldb\cf11 arc}{\i\v arc_5}{\i , }{\uldb\cf11 circle}{\i\v circle_3}{\i , }{\uldb\cf11 drawpoly}{\i\v drawpoly_1}{\i ,} and {\uldb\cf11 ellipse}{\i\v ellipse_6}
. The {\uldb\cf11 fillellipse}{\v fillellipse_4} predicate draws and fills an ellipse, while {\uldb\cf11 pieslice}{\v pieslice_5} and {\uldb\cf11 pieslicexy}{\v pieslicexy_6}
 draw and fill a pie slice. You can get the coordinates of the last drawn arc or ellipse by calling {\uldb\cf11 getarccoords}{\i\v getarccoords_6}.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Each graphics driver and graphics mode has an aspect ratio associated with it. The aspect ratio is used by {\uldb\cf11 arc}{\v arc_5} and {\uldb\cf11 circle}{\v circle_3}
 as a scaling factor to make circles round on the screen. This ratio can be computed by calling {\uldb\cf11 getaspectratio}{\i\v getaspectratio_2}, then manipulating Xasp and Yasp. You can also set a new aspect ratio with {\uldb\cf11 setaspectratio}{\i\v 
setaspectratio_2}.
\par The Y aspect factor, Yasp, is normalized to 10,000; on all graphics adapters except the VGA and IBM 8514, Xasp (the X aspect factor) is less than Yasp because the pixels are taller than they're wide. On the VGA and IBM 8514, which have "square" pixels, Xa
sp equals Yasp. In general, the relationship between Yasp and Xasp can be stated as:
\par Yasp  = 10,000
\par Xasp <=  10,000
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b The Predicates:
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 arc/5}{\v arc_5}
\par {\uldb\cf11 circle/3}{\v circle_3}
\par {\uldb\cf11 ellipse/6}{\v ellipse_6}
\par {\uldb\cf11 fillellipse/4}{\v fillellipse_4}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getarccoords/6}{\v getarccoords_6}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getaspectratio/2}{\v getaspectratio_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 pieslice/5}{\v pieslice_5}
\par {\uldb\cf11 pieslicexy/6}{\v pieslicexy_6}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setaspectratio/2}{\v setaspectratio_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Rectangles_Polygons_and_Bar_Graphs}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Rectangles, Polygons, and Bar Graphs}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Rectangles, Polygons, and Bar Graphs}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Rectangles, Polygons, and Bar Graphs
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 You can draw rectangles with the {\uldb\cf11 rectangle}{\v rectangle_4} predicate, and polygons with {\uldb\cf11 drawpoly}{\v drawpoly_1} or {\uldb\cf11 fillpoly}{\i\v fillpoly_1}
. You can also draw two- and three-dimensional bars on a bar graph with {\uldb\cf11 bar}{\v bar_4} and {\uldb\cf11 bar3d}{\i\v bar3d_6}.
\par {\b The Predicates:
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 bar/4}{\v bar_4}
\par {\uldb\cf11 bar3d/6}{\v bar3d_6}
\par {\uldb\cf11 drawpoly/1}{\v drawpoly_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 fillpoly/1}{\v fillpoly_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 rectangle/4}{\v rectangle_4}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Filling}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Filling}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Filling}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 Filling
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 You can fill the shapes you've drawn with {\i floodfill}, or combine drawing and filling into one step with {\uldb\cf11 fillpoly}{\v fillpoly_1} and {\uldb\cf11 pieslice}{\i\v pieslice_5}
. You can select a predefined fill pattern with {\uldb\cf11 setfillstyle}{\i\v setfillstyle_2}, and define your own fill pattern with {\uldb\cf11 setfillpattern.}{\v setfillpattern_2}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 For information about the current fill pattern and fill color, you call {\uldb\cf11 getfillsettings}{\i\v getfillsettings_2}; you can get the user-defined fill pattern with {\uldb\cf11 getfillpattern}{\i\v getfillpattern_1}
.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b The Predicates:
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 floodfill/3}{\v floodfill_3}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getfillpattern/1}{\v getfillpattern_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getfillsettings/2}{\v getfillsettings_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setfillpattern/2}{\v setfillpattern_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setfillstyle/2}{\v setfillstyle_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Color_Control}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Color Control}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Color Control}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Color Control
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 Palettes}{\v Palettes}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 Color Control on a CGA}{\v Color_Control_on_a_CGA}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Color Control on the EGA}{\v Color_Control_on_the_EGA}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Color Control on RGB}{\v Color_Control_on_RGB_Displays}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Color Control Predicates}{\v Color_Control_Predicates}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Palettes}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Palettes}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Palettes}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}
} Palettes
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 The graphics screen consists of an array of pixels; each pixel produ
ces a single (colored) dot on the screen. The pixel's value does not specify the precise color directly; it is an index into a color table called a palette. The palette entry corresponding to a given pixel value contains the exact color information for th
at pixel.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 
This indirection scheme has a number of implications. Though the hardware might be capable of displaying many colors, only a subset of those colors can be displayed at any given time. The number of colors that can be displayed at any one time is e
qual to the number of entries in the palette (the palette's size). For example, on an EGA, the hardware can display 64 different colors, but only 16 of them at a time; the EGA palette's size = 16.
\par The size of the palette determines the range of values a pixel can assume, from 0 to (size - 1). The {\uldb\cf11 getmaxcolor}{\v getmaxcolor_1} predicate returns the highest valid pixel value (size - 1) for the current graphics driver and mode.
\par In this chapter, we often use the term color, such as the current drawing color, fill co
lor, and pixel color. In fact, this color is like a pixel value: it's an index into the palette. Only the palette determines the true color on the screen. By manipulating the palette, you can change the actual color displayed on the screen even though the
 pixel values (drawing color, fill color, etc.) have not changed.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Background and Drawing Color
\par }The {\i background color} always corresponds to pixel value 0. When an area is cleared to the {\i background color}, that area's pixels are simply set to 0.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 The {\i drawing color} is the value to which pixels are set when lines or shapes are drawn. You select a {\i drawing color} with {\i setcolor(N)}, where N is a valid pixel value for the current palette.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Color_Control_on_a_CGA}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Color Control on a CGA}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Color Control on a CGA}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Color Control on a CGA
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 
Due to graphics hardware differences, how you actually control color differs quite a bit between the CGA and the EGA, so we'll present them separately. Color control on the AT&T driver and the lower resolutions of the MCGA driver is similar to CGA color c
ontrol; the 3270 PC is also similar to a CGA in this respect.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 On the CGA, you can choose to display your graphics in low resolution (320x200), which allows you to use four colors, or high resolution (640x200), in which you can use two colors.
\par For more information refer to:
\par \pard \s16 {\uldb\cf11 CGA Low Resolution}{\v CGA_Low_Resolution}
\par {\uldb\cf11 CGA High Resolution}{\v CGA_High_Resolution}
\par {\uldb\cf11 CGA Palette Predicates}{\v CGA_Palette_Predicates}
\par \pard \s16\sa120 
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} CGA_Low_Resolution}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} CGA Low Resolution}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} CGA Low Resolution}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} CGA Low Resolution
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 In the low-resolution modes, you can choose from four predefined four-color palettes. In any of these palettes, you can only set the fir
st color entry; entries 1, 2, and 3 are fixed. The first color entry (0) is the background color. This can be any one of the 16 available colors (see the following table).
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 You choose which palette you want by the mode you select (CGAC0, CGAC1, CGAC2, CGAC3). These modes specify palette 0 through palette 3, as detailed in the following table.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i Predefined CGA Palettes
\par }\pard\plain \s39\keep\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx851\tx1701 \f5\fs20 {\b CGA \tab Palette\tab }{\b\ul Color   Assigned   to   Pixel   Value
\par }\pard \s39\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx851\tx1985\tx3261\tx4536 {\b Mode \tab Number\tab 1\tab  2 \tab 3
\par }\pard\plain \s23\qj\keep\tx1134\tx1843\tx2977\tx4253 \f5\fs20 CGAC0\tab 0\tab lightgreen\tab lightred\tab yellow
\par CGAC1\tab 1\tab lightcyan\tab lightmagenta\tab white
\par CGAC2\tab 2\tab green\tab red\tab brown\tab 
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1134\tx1843\tx2977\tx4253 CGAC3\tab 3\tab cyan\tab magenta\tab lightgray
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 The available CGA background colors, defined as symbolic constants in BGI.CON, are listed in the following table.
\par {\b\i CGA Background Colors
\par }\pard\plain \s27\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx851\tx1985\tx3119 \f5\fs20 {\b Numeric\tab Symbolic\tab Numeric\tab Symbolic
\par }\pard \s27\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx851\tx1985\tx3119 {\b Value\tab Name\tab Value\tab Name
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx851\cellx1985\cellx2977\cellx4395 \pard\plain \intbl \f5\fs20 0 \cell black    \cell 8 \cell darkgray\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx851\cellx1985\cellx2977\cellx4395 \pard \intbl 1 \cell 
blue    \cell 9 \cell lightblue\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl 2 \cell green   \cell 10  \cell lightgreen\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl 3 \cell cyan  \cell 11  \cell lightcyan\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl 4 \cell red    \cell 12  \cell 
lightred\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl 5 \cell magenta  \cell 13  \cell lightmagenta\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \intbl 6 \cell brown   \cell 14 \cell yellow\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \cellx851\cellx1985\cellx2977
\cellx4395 \pard \intbl 7 \cell lightgray \cell 15  \cell white\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 To assign one of these colors to the CGA background color, use the standard predicate {\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor}{\i\v setbkcolor_1}{
\i (Color)}, where Color is one of the entries in the preceding table.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Notice that, for the CGA, this color is not a pixel value used as a palette index; it directly specifies the actual color to be put in the first palette entry.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} CGA_High_Resolution}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} CGA High Resolution}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} CGA High Resolution}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} CGA High Resolution
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 In high-resolution mode (640x200), the CGA displays two colors: a black background and a colored foreground. Pixels can take on values of either 0 or 1. Because of a quirk in the CGA itself, the 
foreground color is actually what the hardware thinks of as its background color: You set it with the {\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor}{\v setbkcolor_1} predicate. (Strange but true.)
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 The colors available for the colored foreground are those listed in table (refer to {\uldb\cf11 CGA Low Resolution}{\v CGA_Low_Resolution}). The CGA uses this color to display all pixels whose value equals 1.
\par The modes that behave in this way are CGAHI, MCGAMED, MCGAHI, ATT400MED, and ATT400HI (refer ti {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\i\v initgraph_5}).
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} CGA_Palette_Predicates}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} CGA Palette Predicates}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} CGA Palette Predicates}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} CGA Palette Predicates
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Because the CGA palette is predetermined, you should not use the {\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\v setallpalette_1} predicate on a CGA; if you do, it will be ignored. Also, you should not use {\uldb\cf11 setpalette}{\i\v 
setpalette_2}{\i (Index, Actual_color)}, except for Index = 0. (This is an alternate way to set the CGA background color to Actual_color.)
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Color_Control_on_the_EGA}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Color Control on the EGA}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Color Control on the EGA}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Color Control on the EGA
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 On the EGA, the palette contains 16 entries from a total of 64 possible colors, and each entry is user-settable.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 You can retrieve the current palette with {\uldb\cf11 getpalette}{\i\v getpalette_1}
, which fills in a list with the palette's size (16) and the actual palette entries (the "hardware color numbers" stored in the palette). You can change the palette entries individually with {\uldb\cf11 setpalette}{\i\v setpalette_2}, or all at once with 
{\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\i\v setallpalette_1}. 
\par The default EGA palette corresponds to the 16 CGA colors, as given in the previous color table: Black is 0, blue 1, ..., and white is 15. There are constants defined in BGI.CON that contain the corresponding hardware color values: These are ega
_BLACK, ega_BLUE, ega_WHITE, and so on. You can also get these values with {\i getpalette}.
\par The {\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor}{\i\v setbkcolor_1}{\i (Color)} predicate behaves differently on an EGA than on a CGA. On an EGA, {\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor}{\v setbkcolor_1}
 copies the actual color attribute number that's bound to the argument Color into palette entry #0.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Color Constants D{\*\bkmkstart current}{\*\bkmkend current}efined in BGI.CON
\par }\pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\i \tab Palette Color Table 
\par }\pard \s24\fi851\sb120\keep\tx2835 {\ul CGA}\tab {\ul EGA/VGA
\par }\pard \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1134\tx1985\tx3969 Name\tab Value\tab Name\tab Value
\par \pard\plain \s23\qj\keep\tx1276\tx1985\tx4111 \f5\fs20 black\tab   0\tab ega_BLACK\tab   0
\par blue\tab   1\tab ega_BLUE\tab   1
\par green\tab   2\tab ega_GREEN\tab   2
\par cyan\tab   3\tab ega_CYAN\tab   3
\par red\tab   4\tab ega_RED\tab   4
\par magenta\tab   5\tab ega_MAGENTA\tab   5
\par brown\tab   6\tab ega_BROWN\tab 20
\par lightgray\tab   7\tab ega_LIGHTGRAY\tab   7
\par darkgrey\tab   8\tab ega_DARKGRAY\tab 56
\par lightblue\tab   9\tab ega_LIGHTBLUE\tab 57
\par lightgreen\tab 10\tab ega_LIGHTGREEN\tab 58
\par lightcyan\tab 11\tab ega_LIGHTCYAN\tab 59
\par lightred\tab 12\tab ega_LIGHTRED\tab 60
\par lightmagenta\tab 13\tab ega_LIGHTMAGENTA\tab 61
\par yellow\tab 14\tab ega_YELLOW\tab 62
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1276\tx1985\tx4111 white\tab 15\tab ega_WHITE\tab 63
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Color_Control_on_RGB_Displays}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Color Control on RGB Displays}} {
\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Color Control on RGB Displays}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Color Control on RGB Displays
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 On the RGB displays currently supported by the BGI, the palette contains 256 entries from a total of 256K (272,144) possible colors, and each palette entry is user-settable.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 You can change individual RGB palette entries with a call to {\uldb\cf11 setrgbpalette}{\i\v setrgbpalette_4}. The other BGI palette-manipulation predicates--{\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\i\v setallpalette_1}, {\uldb\cf11 
setpalette}{\i\v setpalette_2}, and {\uldb\cf11 getpalette}{\i\v getpalette_1}
--can't be used with the IBM 8514 driver or with the VGA in 256K color mode. For compatibility with the other IBM graphics adapters, the BGI driver (IBM8514.BGI) defines the first 16 palette entries of the IBM 8514 to the default colors of the EGA/VGA. 

\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Color_Control_Predicates}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Color Control Predicates}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Color Control Predicates}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Color Control Predicates
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 getbkcolor/1}{\v getbkcolor_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getcolor/1}{\v getcolor_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getdefaultpalette/1}{\v getdefaultpalette_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getmaxcolor/1}{\v getmaxcolor_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getpalette/1}{\v getpalette_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 getpalettesize/1}{\v getpalettesize_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setallpalette/1}{\v setallpalette_1}
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor/1}{\v setbkcolor_1}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 setcolor/1}{\v setcolor_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setpalette/2}{\v setpalette_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setrgbcolor/4}{\v setrgbcolor_4}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Outputting_Text_in_Graphics_Mode}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Outputting Text in Graphics Mode}} 
{\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Outputting Text in Graphics Mode}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Outputting Text in Graphics Mode
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 Character Fonts}{\v Character_Fonts}
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt Visual Prolog}}'s BGI system does not restrict you to creating only graphics; you can also output text in a variety of fonts, sizes, and styles.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 You output graphics text by calling either {\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\v outtext_1} or {\uldb\cf11 outtextxy}{\i\v outtextxy_3}; if clipping is On, all text strings output by {\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\v outtext_1} and {\uldb\cf11 
outtextxy}{\v outtextxy_3}
 will be clipped at the viewport borders. If clipping is Off, these predicates will throw away all bit-mapped font output if any part of the text string would go off the screen edge; stroked font output is truncated at the screen edges.
\par You can determine the on-screen size (in pixels) of a given text string by calling two predicates; one measures the string's height and the other measures its width.
\par The available fonts include a standard built-in bit-mapped font and several stroked fonts. You can enlarge them all, as well as "stretch" or "compress" the stroked fonts to your own liking. You can specify whether a string of text prints horizontally or v
ertically, and you can control text justification.
\par For an explanation of text direction, see {\uldb\cf11 settextstyle}{\i\v settextstyle_3}; for a discussion of text justification, see {\uldb\cf11 settextjustify}{\i\v settextjustify_2}. Text sizes (standard and user-defined) are described under {
\uldb\cf11 settextstyle}{\v settextstyle_3} and {\uldb\cf11 setusercharsize}{\i\v setusercharsize_4}.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Character_Fonts}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Character Fonts}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Character Fonts}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Character Fonts
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 See also:{\uldb\cf11  Fonts: To Load or To Link}{\v Fonts_To_Load_or_To_Link}
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 The BGI graphics system includes an 8x8 bit-mapped font and several stroked fonts for text output while in graphics mode.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 In a bit-mapped font, each character is defined by a matrix of pixels. 
\par In a stroked font, each character is defined by a series of vectors that tell the graphics system how to draw that character.
\par The advantage of using a stroked font is apparent when you start to draw large characters. Since a stroked font is defined by vectors, it will still retain good resolution and quality when the font is enlarged. On the other hand, when you enlarge a bit-ma
pped font, the matrix is multiplied by a scaling factor; as the scaling factor becomes larger, the characters' resolution becomes coarser. For small characters, the bit-mapped font should be suffi
cient, but for larger text you should select a stroked font. 
\par The default 8x8 bit-mapped font is built in to the graphics package, so it is always available at run time.
\par The stroked fonts are each kept in a separate .CHR file; they can be loaded in memory at run time or linked directly into your .EXE file.
\par You choose these fonts by a call to {\i settextstyle}. Constant declarations defined in BGI.CON provide names for these different font settings (see the following table).
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\i Font File Constants Declared in BGI.CON{\*\bkmkstart t1}{\*\bkmkend t1}
\par }\pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-5103\li5103\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1843\tx3261\tx4395\tx5103 \f5\fs20 {\b OBJ File\tab File \tab Name\tab Value\tab Description
\par }\pard \s25\qj\fi-5103\li5103\tx1701\tx2977\tx4678\tx5103 (none)\tab (none) \tab default_FONT\tab 0 \tab 8x8 bit-mapped
\par TRIP_FON.OBJ\tab TRIP.CHR \tab triplex_FONT \tab 1 \tab Stroked triplex
\par LITT_FON.OBJ\tab LITT.CHR \tab small_FONT \tab 2 \tab Stroked small
\par SANS_FON.OBJ\tab SANS.CHR \tab sansserif_FONT \tab 3 \tab Stroked sans-serif
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-5103\li5103\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1701\tx2977\tx4678\tx5103 GOTH_FON.OBJ\tab GOTH.CHR \tab gothic_FONT \tab 4 \tab Stroked gothic
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Fonts_To_Load_or_To_Link}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Fonts: To Load or To Link}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Fonts: To Load or To Link}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Fonts: To Load or To Link
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Normally, the {\uldb\cf11 settextstyle}{\v settextstyle_3} predicate loads a stroked font file by allocating memory for the font, then loading the appropriate .CHR file into memory fro
m disk at run time. As an alternative to this dynamic loading scheme, you can link a character font file (or several of them) directly into your executable program file. You do this by using the {\uldb\cf11 bgifont}{\v bgifont_compiler_directive}
 compiler directive in your source code to register the character font(s). When you compile your project, {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt Visual Prolog}} will link in the character font .OBJ files for the stroked fonts you register.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Graphic_Mode_Text_Predicates}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Graphic Mode Text Predicates}} {
\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Graphic Mode Text Predicates}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Graphic Mode Text Predicates
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 gettextsettings/5}{\v gettextsettings_5}
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 outtext/1}{\v outtext_1}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 outtextxy/3}{\v outtextxy_3}
\par {\uldb\cf11 settextjustify/2}{\v settextjustify_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 settextstyle/3}{\v settextstyle_3}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setusercharsize/4}{\v setusercharsize_4}
\par {\uldb\cf11 textheight/2}{\v textheight_2}
\par {\uldb\cf11 textwidth/2}{\v textwidth_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Screens_and_Viewports}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Screens and Viewports}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Screens and Viewports}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Screens and {\*\bkmkstart Viewports}Viewports{\*\bkmkend Viewports}
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 See also:{\uldb\cf11  Predicates for Screens and Viewports}{\v Predicates_for_Screens_and_Viewports} 
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Depending on your graphics adapter, your system has between one and eight  screen-page buffers, which are areas in memory where individual whole-screen images are stored dot-by-dot. You can specify which scre
en page is the active one (where graphics predicates place their output) and which is the visual page (the one displayed on screen) with setactivepage and setvisualpage, respectively.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Once your screen's in a graphics mode, you can define a {\uldb\cf11 viewport}{\v Some_Words_about_Viewports} (a rectangular "virtual screen") on your screen with a call to {\uldb\cf11 setviewport}{\v setviewport_5}
. You define the viewport's position in terms of absolute screen coordinates, and specify whether clipping is On (active) or Off. You clear the viewport with {\uldb\cf11 clearviewport}{\i\v clearviewport_0}
. To find out the current viewport's absolute screen coordinates and clipping status, call {\uldb\cf11 getviewsettings}{\i\v getviewsettings_5}. 
\par You can clear the whole screen in one fell swoop with a call to {\uldb\cf11 cleardevice}{\i\v cleardevice_0}
; this predicate erases the entire screen and homes the current position (CP) in the viewport, but leaves all other graphics system settings intact (the line, fill, and text styles, the palette, the viewport settings, etc.).
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Some_Words_about_Viewports}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Some Words about Viewports}} {
\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Some Words about Viewports}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Some Words about Viewports
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt Visual Prolog}}{\i  }
provides predicates for creating and managing viewports on your screen in graphics mode. If you are not familiar with BGI viewports, you should read this brief overview.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 
In BGI graphics mode, you can define a rectangular area on your PC's video screen; this is a viewport. When your BGI graphics program outputs drawings, etc., the viewport acts as the virtual screen. The rest of the screen (outside the viewport) remains un
touched. You define a viewport in terms of screen coordinates with a call to the {\uldb\cf11 setviewport}{\v setviewport_5} predicate.
\par BGI viewports are similar to windows, but they are unbuffered and are defined in terms of your PC's graphics resolution--not its text resolution. 
\par The default viewport is the entire screen, which is the same as calling:
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 {\f5 setviewport(0,0,639,199)]}   in high-resolution mode on a CGA
\par {\f5 setviewport(0,0,319,199)]}   in low-resolution mode on a CGA
\par {\f5 setviewport(0,0,639,349)]}   in high-resolution mode on an EGA
\par {\f5 setviewport(0,0,639,199)]}   in low-resolution mode on an EGA
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Once you've defined a viewport, you can direct graphics to that viewport.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Unlike the graphics in {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt PDC Prolog}}
 version 1.x, where pixels are mapped onto the screen based upon a 32000 x 32000 virtual screen, graphic displays and coordinates within a BGI viewport are not virtual. BGI graphics coordinates are based on the actual number of pixels within a viewport, a
nd, except for {\uldb\cf11 setviewport}{\i\v setviewport_5}, all coordinates for graphics-mode predicates are given in viewport-relative terms (pixel ({\i x,y}
) position within the viewport). The upper left corner of the BGI graphics-mode viewport is the coordinate origin, referred to as (0,0). 
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Predicates_for_Screens_and_Viewports}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Predicates for Screens and Viewports}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Predicates for Screens and Viewports}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Predicates for Screens and Viewports
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 cleardevice/0}{\v cleardevice_0}
\par {\uldb\cf11 clearviewport/0}{\v clearviewport_0}{\uldb\cf11 
\par getviewsettings/5}{\v getviewsettings_5}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setactivepage/1}{\v setactivepage_1}
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 setviewport/5}{\v setviewport_5}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 setvisualpage/1}{\v setvisualpage_1}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Manipulating_Pixels_and_Images}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} Manipulating Pixels and Images}} {
\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Manipulating Pixels and Images}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Manipulating Pixels and Images
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 Predicates for Manipulating Pixels and Images}{\v Predicates_for_Manipulating_Pixels_and_Images}
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Besides drawing and painting, the BGI graphics system offers several predicates for manipulating images and pixels.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 You can capture a portion of the on-screen image with {\uldb\cf11 getimage}{\i\v getimage_5}, call {\uldb\cf11 imagesize}{\v imagesize_5}
 to calculate the number of bytes required to store that captured image in memory, then put the stored image back on the screen (anywhere you want) with {\uldb\cf11 putimage}{\i\v putimage_4}
. The screen image is stored in a string, so you can manipulate it as you do other variables, but you can't write it out or in
sert it into a database. This restriction exists because the screen image might contain several zeros (in other words, a NULL byte) which, to {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt Visual Prolog}}, signifies the end of an output string or database.

\par You can also manipulate the color of individual pixels with the predicates {\uldb\cf11 getpixel}{\v getpixel_3} (which returns the color of a given pixel) and {\uldb\cf11 putpixel}{\v putpixel_3} (which plots a specified pixel in a given color).
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Predicates_for_Manipulating_Pixels_and_Images}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Predicates for Manipulating Pixels and Images}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Predicates for Manipulating Pixels and Images}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super 
!{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Predicates for Manipulating Pixels and Images
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 getimage/5}{\v getimage_5}
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 getpixel/3}{\v getpixel_3}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa60 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 imagesize/5}{\v imagesize_5}
\par {\uldb\cf11 putimage/4}{\v putimage_4}
\par {\uldb\cf11 putpixel/3}{\v putpixel_3}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Using_the_BGI_with_RGB_Graphics_Cards}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Using the BGI with RGB Graphics Cards}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Using the BGI with RGB Graphics Cards}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Using the BGI with RGB Graphics Cards
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 
The IBM 8514 Graphics Adapter and the VGA in 256K color mode are "RGB" (for "Red-Green-Blue") graphics cards. Both provide color palettes of 256 colors from a list of 256K colors; the palette colors are defined by numerous combinations of red, green, and 
blue.
\par The IBM 8514 graphics card is a new, hi-resolution graphics card capable of resolutions up to 1024 x 768 pixels. Its BGI d
river file name is IBM8514.BGI. The BGI autodetection logic can't properly detect the IBM 8514 graphics card; it will recognize the 8514 as a VGA in vgaHI mode. In order to use the IBM 8514 card, the {\i GrDriver} argument to {\b initgraph}
 must be bound to the value of ibm8514 (which is defined in BGI.CON) when your program initializes the BGI. With the IBM 8514, you should not call {\uldb\cf11 detectgraph}{\v detectgraph_2} (or {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\v initgraph_5} with {\i GrDriver}
 set to detect) unless you want to enter its lower-resolution VGA-emulation mode.
\par The supported modes of the IBM 8514 card are ibm8514LO (640x480 pixels), and ibm8514HI (1024x768 pixels). Both modes are defined as constants in BGI.CON.
\par The IBM 8514 uses three 6-bit values to define colors; each defined color has a 6-bit Red, Green, and Blue component. The {\uldb\cf11 setrgbpalette}{\v setrgbpalette_4} predicate enables you to define colors for the IBM 8514.
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setrgbpalette}(INTEGER {\i Index, }INTEGER{\i  RedComp, }INTEGER{\i  GreenComp, }INTEGER{\i  BlueComp})
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 The {\i Index} argument defines the palette entry to be loaded; {\i Index} is an integer ranging from 0--255. The arguments {\i RedComp, GreenComp,} and {\i BlueComp}
 define the component colors of that palette entry. Only the lower byte of each of these values is used, and out of this byte, only the 6 most-significant bits are loaded into the palette.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Restrictions on Using the 8514 Driver
\par }The other BGI palette-manipulation predicates--{\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\v setallpalette_1}, {\uldb\cf11 setpalette}{\v setpalette_2}, and {\uldb\cf11 getpalette}{\v getpalette_1}--can't be used with the IBM 8514 driver or with the VGA in 256K colo
r mode. For compatibility with the other IBM graphics adapters, the BGI driver (IBM8514.BGI) defines the first 16 palette entries of the IBM 8514 to the default colors of the EGA/VGA. These values can be used as is, or changed with the setrgbpalette predi
cate. The floodfill predicate does not work with the IBM 8514 driver or with the VGA in 256K color mode.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Using_the_BGI_in_Your_Applications}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Using the BGI in Your Applications}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Using the BGI in Your Applications}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Using the BGI in Your Applications
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 There are two ways you can run your {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt Visual Prolog}} BGI graphics program:
\par \pard\plain \s32\fi-284\li284\sa60\tx284\tx567 \f5\fs20 {\f1 \'b7\tab }from an .EXE file, with the device drivers and font files on hand at run time
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }from an .EXE file, with the device drivers and stroked fonts linked into the .EXE file
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 In the following sections, we'll summarize the graphics driver files and stroked character font files and explain what you need to do in order to run your programs in each of these ways. 
\par \pard\plain \s16 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 Graphics Drivers and Character Fonts}{\v Graphics_Drivers_and_Character_Fonts}
\par {\uldb\cf11 A Program That Loads Drivers at Run Time}{\v A_Program_That_Loads_Drivers_at_Run_Time}
\par {\uldb\cf11 Building and Running a Stand-Alone BGI Executable}{\v Building_and_Running_a_Stand_Alone_BGI_Executable}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Graphics_Drivers_and_Character_Fonts}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Graphics Drivers and Character Fonts}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Graphics Drivers and Character Fonts}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super 
{\*\bkmkstart Graphics_Drivers}!{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Graphics Drivers {\*\bkmkend Graphics_Drivers}and Character Fonts
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Every PC has some kind of video adapter. The type of adapter attached to the computer determines the number of colors available on-screen and the resolution of the display, among other things.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt PDC Prolog}}
's BGI system provides several graphics driver (.BGI) files; each file enables the BGI predicates to run on a given type or set of graphics adapters. These are the BGI graphics driver files shipped with {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt 
PDC Prolog}}, and the types of adapter supported by each:
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 File Name\tab Supported Adapter(s)
\par \pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-1418\li1418\tx1418 \f5\fs20 ATT.BGI\tab AT&T 400-line Graphics Adapter
\par CGA.BGI\tab Color Graphics Adapter and Multi Color Graphics Adapter
\par HERC.BGI\tab Hercules Graphics Adapter
\par EGAVGA.BGI\tab Enhanced Graphics Adapter and Video Graphics Adapter
\par PC3270.BGI\tab 3270 PC Graphics Adapter
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-1418\li1418\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1418 IBM8514.BGI\tab IBM 8514
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 In addition to the graphics driver files, {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt PDC Prolog}}'s BGI system includes several stroked character font (.CHR) files; 
these font files allow you to display characters on-screen in several fonts. These are the BGI stroked character font files shipped with {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt PDC Prolog}}, and the type of font provided by each:
\par \pard\plain \s27 \f5\fs20 {\b Font Files and Types
\par }\pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 File Name\tab Type of Font
\par \pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-1418\li1418\tx1418 \f5\fs20 GOTH.CHR\tab Stroked Gothic Font
\par LITT.CHR\tab Stroked Small (Little) Font
\par SANS.CHR\tab Stroked Sans-Serif Font
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-1418\li1418\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1418 TRIP.CHR\tab Stroked Triplex Font
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 In order for the BGI system to load the drivers, you must either place them on the current directory, or place them in another directory and 
give the path to that directory in the call to initgraph. Loading drivers at run time allows the program to detect the actual hardware before it loads the corresponding device driver.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 When you want to link the device drivers and fonts into your .EXE file, you must use the compiler directives {\uldb\cf11 bgidriver }{\v bgidriver_compiler_directive} and {\uldb\cf11 bgifont}{\v bgifont_compiler_directive}
. Also, for linking purposes, you must specify the library file BGI.LIB under the Options/Link Options/Libraries menu item; this library contains the .OBJ code for the drivers and fonts.
\par Before compiling a program that uses BGI predicates, you should verify that the file BGI.PRE exists in the current directory.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} A_Program_That_Loads_Drivers_at_Run_Time}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 A Program That Loads Drivers at Run Time}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} A Program That Loads Drivers at Run Time}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {\cs22\super !
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} A Program That Loads Drivers at Run Time
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Running your graphics programs from within {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt PDC Prolog}}
's development environment is the easiest way to learn about the BGI in general. Programs will run exactly the same way when you compile them to .EXE files. Here's what you need to do:
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Include BGI.PRE and BGI.CON (use the {\i include}{\b  }keyword in your program).
\par Place the .BGI and .CHR files on the current directory, or give their path to {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\i\v initgraph_5}.
\par Case in Point: A good way to organize your BGI files is to have only one copy of the .CHR and .BGI files, placed (for example) in the directory C:\\PROLOG\\BGI. You can give this path in your call to initgraph like this:
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(0, 0, _, _, "c\\\\prolog\\\\bgi"),
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 It's also good idea to use the standard predicate {\b envsymbol}. You could then use the DOS SET command to tell {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt PDC Prolog}} where the BGI drivers are placed, like so:

\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 SET bgipath = c:\\prolog\\bgi
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Then your {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt PDC Prolog}} program will be able to read where the drivers are located if you make these calls:
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 envsymbol("bgipath",BGIpath), \line /* Binds BGIpath to value of bgipath */
\par initgraph(0,0,_,_,BGIpath), \line /* Tells initgraph the path name set with SET */
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Building_and_Running_a_Stand_Alone_BGI_Executable}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 Building and Running a Stand-Alone BGI Executable }} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} Building and Running a Stand-Alone BGI Executable }} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_USER}} {
\cs22\super !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} Building and Running a Stand-Alone BGI Executable 
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 This is the most advanced method of generating an executable file from your BGI graphics program. It's also t
he most specialized; you need to know which graphics adapter is attached to the run-time computer, because you'll be linking the graphics driver software directly into your finished product at compile-and-link time. The advantage to this method is that yo
ur finished product will be a true stand-alone application. There's no need to make the .BGI and .CHR files available at run time, since they're already built into your program. One disadvantage is that the size of your executable is larger than it would 
be with the other methods already described.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 To build a true stand-alone BGI graphics application, you need to do five things:
\par Make sure that BGI.PRE and BGI.CON are where {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst  title }{\fldrslt PDC Prolog}} can find them when compiling and linking your program.
\par To link the graphics driver into your executable, you need to use the {\uldb\cf11 bgidriver }{\v bgidriver_compiler_directive}
 compiler directive at the top of your .PRO file. You also need to give the public name for that graphics driver (see the following example).
\par To link the stroked character font file(s) into your executable, you need to use the {\uldb\cf11 bgifont}{\v bgifont_compiler_directive}{\i  }
compiler directive, and you need to give the public name for each font being linked in (see the following example).
\par To specify that the library BGI.LIB should be linked in, you must choose the Options/Link Options/Libraries menu item and give the path and name for the BGI library, such as c:\\prolog\\graphics\\bgi.
\par Compile and link your program with Compile/EXE File or Compile/Project.
\par \pard\plain \s37\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} BGI_Predicates_Alphabetical_List}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $}
 BGI Predicates (Alphabetical List)}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} BGI Predicates (Alphabetical List)}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates}} {\cs22\super !{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} BGI Predicates (Alphabetical List)
\par \pard\plain \s27\tx1701 \f5\fs20 {\uldb\cf11 arc/5 }{\v arc_5} \tab {\uldb\cf11 bar/4 }{\v bar_4} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 bar3d/6 }{\v bar3d_6} \tab {\uldb\cf11 circle/3 }{\v circle_3} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 cleardevice/0 }{\v cleardevice_0} \tab {\uldb\cf11 clearviewport/0 }{\v clearviewport_0} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 closegraph}{\v closegraph} \tab {\uldb\cf11 detectgraph/2}{\v detectgraph_2} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 drawpoly/1}{\v drawpoly_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 ellipse/6}{\v ellipse_6} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 fillellipse/4}{\v fillellipse_4} \tab {\uldb\cf11 fillpoly/1}{\v fillpoly_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 floodfill/3}{\v floodfill_3} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getarccoords/6}{\v getarccoords_6} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getaspectratio/2}{\v getaspectratio_2} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getbkcolor/1 }{\v getbkcolor_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getcolor/1}{\v getcolor_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getdefaultpalette/1}{\v getdefaultpalette_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getdrivername/1}{\v getdrivername_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getfillpattern/1}{\v getfillpattern_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getfillsettings/2}{\v getfillsettings_2} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getgraphmode/1}{\v getgraphmode_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getimage/5}{\v getimage_5} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getlinesettings/3}{\v getlinesettings_3} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getmaxcolor/1}{\v getmaxcolor_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getmaxmode/1}{\v getmaxmode_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getmaxx/1}{\v getmaxx_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getmaxy/1}{\v getmaxy_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getmodename/2}{\v getmodename_2} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getmoderange/3}{\v getmoderange_3} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getpalette/1}{\v getpalette_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getpalettesize/1}{\v getpalettesize_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getpixel/3}{\v getpixel_3} \tab {\uldb\cf11 gettextsettings/5}{\v gettextsettings_5} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 getviewsettings/5}{\v getviewsettings_5} \tab {\uldb\cf11 getx/1}{\v getx_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 gety/1}{\v gety_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 graphdefaults/0}{\v graphdefaults_0} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 imagesize/5}{\v imagesize_5} \tab {\uldb\cf11 initgraph/5}{\v initgraph_5} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 line/4}{\v line_4} \tab {\uldb\cf11 linerel/2}{\v linerel_2} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 lineto/2}{\v lineto_2} \tab {\uldb\cf11 moverel/2}{\v moverel_2} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 moveto/2}{\v moveto_2} \tab {\uldb\cf11 outtext/1}{\v outtext_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 outtextxy/3}{\v outtextxy_3} \tab {\uldb\cf11 pieslice/5}{\v pieslice_5} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 pieslicexy/6}{\v pieslicexy_6} \tab {\uldb\cf11 putimage/4}{\v putimage_4} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 putpixel/3}{\v putpixel_3} \tab {\uldb\cf11 rectangle/4}{\v rectangle_4} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 restorecrtmode/0}{\v restorecrtmode_0} \tab {\uldb\cf11 setactivepage/1}{\v setactivepage_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 setallpalette/1}{\v setallpalette_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 setaspectratio/2}{\v setaspectratio_2} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor/1}{\v setbkcolor_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 setcolor/1}{\v setcolor_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 setfillpattern/2}{\v setfillpattern_2} \tab {\uldb\cf11 setfillstyle/2}{\v setfillstyle_2} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 setgraphbufsize/1}{\v setgraphbufsize_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 setgraphmode/1}{\v setgraphmode_1} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 setlinestyle/3}{\v setlinestyle_3} \tab {\uldb\cf11 setpalette/2}{\v setpalette_2} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 setrgbcolor/4}{\v setrgbcolor_4} \tab setrgbpalette/4
\par {\uldb\cf11 settextjustify/2}{\v settextjustify_2} \tab {\uldb\cf11 settextstyle/3}{\v settextstyle_3} 
\par {\uldb\cf11 setusercharsize/4}{\v setusercharsize_4} \tab {\uldb\cf11 setviewport/5}{\v setviewport_5}
\par {\uldb\cf11 setvisualpage/1}{\v setvisualpage_1} \tab {\uldb\cf11 setwritemode/1}{\v setwritemode_1}
\par {\uldb\cf11 textheight/2\tab textwidth/2}{\v textwidth_2} \tab {\v textheight_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} arc_5}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} arc/5 }} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {
\cs22\super K} arc }} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} arc/5 \tab 
BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v arc_see_also}{\b0 \tab }{\ul\cf11 Portability}{\b0\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b arc}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y, }INTEGER{\i  StAngle, }INTEGER{\i  EndAngle, }INTEGER{\i  Radius})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws a circular {\b arc}
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b arc} draws a circular arc in the current drawing color centered at ({\i X,Y}) with a radius given by {\i Radius}. The arc travels from {\i StAngle} to {\i EndAngle}. If {\i StAngle} equals 0 and {\i EndAngle}
 equals 360, the call to {\b arc} will draw a complete circle.
\par The angles for {\b arc} are counterclockwise, with 0 degrees at 3 o'clock, 90 degrees at 12 o'clock, etc.
\par Each graphics driver and graphics mode has an aspect ratio associated with it. The aspect ratio is used by {\b arc} as a scaling factor to make circles round on the screen. This ratio can be computed by calling {\b\uldb\cf11 getaspectratio}{\b\v 
getaspectratio_2}, which returns the horizontal and vertical aspect factors {\i Xasp} and {\i Yasp}. 
\par The {\i Y} aspect factor, {\i Yasp}, is normalized to 10,000; on all graphics adapters except the VGA, {\i Xasp} (the X aspect factor) is less than {\i Yasp} because the pixels are taller than they're wide. On the VGA, which has "square" pixels, {\i Xasp}
 equals {\i Yasp}. In general, the relationship between {\i Yasp} and {\i Xasp} can be stated as:
\par \pard\plain \s27 \f5\fs20 {\i Yasp}\tab  =  10,000
\par {\i Xasp}\tab <= 10,000{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0, GraphDriver,GraphMode,""),
\par /* Draw a 90 degree arc with radius of 50 */
\par arc(150, 150, 0, 89, 50),
\par /* Get the coordinates of the arc and connect ends */
\par getarccoords(X,Y,XStart,YStart,XEnd,YEnd),
\par line(XStart, YStart, XEnd, YEnd),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} arc_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 circle}{\b\v circle_3}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 ellipse}{\b\v ellipse_6}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 getarccords}{\b\v getarccoords_6}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 getaspectratio}{\b\v getaspectratio_2}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 pieslice}{\b\v pieslice_5}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} bar_4}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} bar/4 }} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {
\cs22\super K} bar }} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} bar/4 \tab 
BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v bar_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b bar}(INTEGER {\i Left,} INTEGER {\i Top,} INTEGER {\i Right}, INTEGER {\i Bottom})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws a bar
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b bar} draws a filled-in rectangular {\b bar}. The {\b bar} is filled using the current fill pattern and fill color. {\b bar} does not outline the {\b bar}; to outline a two-dimensional {\b bar}, use {\b\uldb\cf11 bar3d}
{\b\v bar3d_6} with {\i depth} set to 0.
\par The upper left and lower right corners of the rectangle are given by ({\i Left,Top}) and ({\i Right,Bottom}), respectively.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "bgi.pre"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 /*\tab Initialize graphics */
\par initgraph(detect, 0, /* dummy because of detect */
\par \pard \s19\li1418\keep GraphDriver,GraphMode, ""),
\par \pard \s19\li284\keep setfillstyle(solid_fill, magenta),
\par bar3d(100, 10, 200, 100, 5, 1),
\par setfillstyle(hatch_fill , red),
\par bar(30, 30, 80, 80),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} bar_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 bar3d}{\b\v bar3d_6}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 setfillstyle}{\b\v setfillstyle_2}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 setlinestyle}{\b\v setlinestyle_3}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} bar3d_6}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} bar3d/6 }} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} bar3d }} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} bar3d/6 
\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 bar}{\v bar_4}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b bar3d}(INTEGER {\i Left,} INTEGER {\i Top,} INTEGER {\i Right,} INTEGER {\i Bottom,} INTEGER {\i Depth,} INTEGER {\i Topflag})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws a 3-D bar
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b bar3d}
 draws a three-dimensional rectangular bar, then fills it in using the current fill pattern and fill color. The 3-D outline of the bar is drawn in the current line style and color. The bar's depth, in pixels, is given by {\i Depth}.
\par The {\i Topflag} argument governs whether or not a 3-D top is put on the bar. If {\i Topflag} is nonzero, a top is put on; otherwise, no top is put on the bar--making it possible to stack several bars on top of one another.
\par The upper left and lower right corners of the rectangle are given by ({\i Left,Top}) and ({\i Right,Bottom}), respectively.
\par To calculate a typical depth for {\b bar3d}, take 25% of the width of the bar, like this:
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 T25=(Right-Left)/4, bar3d(Left,Top,Right,Bottom,T25,1),{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} circle_3}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} circle/3 }} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} circle }} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 circle/3 \tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 arc}{\v arc_5}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b circle}(INTEGER {\i X,} INTEGER {\i Y,} INTEGER {\i Radius})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws a circle of the given radius at ({\i X,Y}) 
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b circle} draws a circle in the current drawing color with its center at ({\i X,Y}) and a radius given by {\i Radius}.
\par Each graphics driver and graphics mode has an aspect ratio associated with it. The aspect ratio is used by {\b circle} as a scaling factor to make circles round on the screen. This ratio can be computed by calling {\b\uldb\cf11 getaspectratio}{\b\v 
getaspectratio_2}, which returns the horizontal and vertical aspect factors, {\i Xasp} and {\i Yasp}.
\par The {\i Y} aspect factor, {\i Yasp}, is normalized to 10,000; on all graphics adapters except the VGA, {\i Xasp} (the {\i X} aspect factor) is less than {\i Yasp} because the pixels are taller than they're wide. On the VGA, which has "square" pixels, {\i 
Xasp} equals {\i Yasp}. In general, the relationship between {\i Yasp} and {\i Xasp} can be stated as:
\par \pard\plain \s27 \f5\fs20 {\i Yasp}\tab  =  10,000
\par {\i Xasp}\tab <= 10,000
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} cleardevice_0}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} cleardevice/0 }} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} cleardevice }} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Ove
rview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} cleardevice/0 \tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 clearviewport}{\v clearviewport_0}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b cleardevice}({\i None})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab None
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Clears the graphics screen
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b cleardevice} erases the entire graphics screen and moves the CP (current position) to home (0,0) in the current viewport.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} clearviewport_0}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} clearviewport/0 }} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} clearviewport }} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} clearviewport/0 \tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3261 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 cleardevice}{\v cleardevice_0}, {\uldb\cf11 setviewport}{\v setviewport_5}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b clearviewport}({\i None})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab None
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Clears the current viewport
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b clearviewport} erases the viewport and moves the CP (current position) to home (0,0) in the current viewport.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 setviewport(30, 30, 130, 130, 0),
\par outtextxy(10, 10, "Hit any key to clear viewport ..."),
\par readchar(_),\tab /* get a key */
\par clearviewport.\line \tab /* clear viewport when key is hit */
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} closegraph}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} closegraph}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} closegraph}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 closegraph\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\v initgraph_5}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b closegraph}({\i None})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab None
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Shuts down the graphics system
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b closegraph} deallocates all memory allocated by the graphics system, then restores the screen to the mode it was in before you called {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}
. The graphics system deallocates memory, such as the drivers, fonts, etc.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} detectgraph_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} detectgraph/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} detectgraph}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}
} detectgraph/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 See also:  {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\v initgraph_5}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b detectgraph}(INTEGER {\i Graphdriver,} INTEGER {\i Graphmode})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Determines graphics driver and mode to use, by checking the hardware
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b detectgraph} detects your system's graphics adapter and chooses the mode that provides the highest resolution for that adapter. If no graphics hardware was detected, the {\i Graphdriver} argument is set to -2.
\par {\b Note}: The main reason to call {\b detectgraph} directly is to override the graphics mode that {\b detectgraph} recommends to {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} drawpoly_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} drawpoly/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} drawpoly}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 drawpoly/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1701 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 fillpoly}{\v fillpoly_1}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b drawpoly}(BGI_ILIST {\i PolyPointsList})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws the outline of a polygon
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b drawpoly} draws a polygon with as many points as there are coordinates in the list {\i PolyPointsList}, using the current line style and color.
\par {\i PolyPointsList} belongs to the standard domain {\b bgi_ilist}, which is the same as {\f11 bgi_ilist = integer*}.
\par {\i PolyPointsList} contains a sequence of integers. Each pair of integers gives the x and y coordinates of a point on the polygon.
\par {\b Note}: In order to draw a closed figure with n vertices, the list {\i PolyPointsList} must contain{\i  n }+ 1 coordinate pairs where the last coordinate is equal to the first.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\*\bkmkstart E6005}{\*\bkmkend E6005}No errors{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "bgi.pre"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 /*\tab Initialize graphics */
\par initgraph(detect, 0,\tab /* dummy, because of detect */
\par \pard \s19\li1418\keep GraphDriver,GraphMode, ""),
\par \pard \s19\li284\keep /* Draw a triangle */
\par drawpoly([50,100, 100,100, 150,150, 50,100),
\par /* Draw a rhombus */
\par drawpoly([50,10, 90,50, 50,90, 10,50]),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} ellipse_6}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} ellipse/6}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} ellipse}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 ellipse/6\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2127 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 arc}{\v arc_5}, {\uldb\cf11 circle}{\v circle_3}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b ellipse}(INTEGER {\i X,} INTEGER {\i Y,} INTEGER {\i StAngle,} INTEGER {\i EndAngle,} INTEGER {\i Xradius,} INTEGER {\i Yradius})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws an elliptical arc
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b ellipse} draws an elliptical arc in the current drawing color with its center at ({\i X,Y}) and the horizontal and vertical axes given by {\i Xradius} and {\i Yradius}, respectively. The ellipse travels from {\i 
StAngle} to {\i EndAngle}. If {\i StAngle} equals 0 and {\i EndAngle} equals 360, the call to {\b ellipse} will draw a complete ellipse.
\par The angle for {\b ellipse} is counterclockwise, with 0 degrees at 3 o'clock, 90 degrees at 12 o'clock, and so on.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} fillellipse_4}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} fillellipse/4}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} fillellipse}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}
} fillellipse/4\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b fillellipse}(INTEGER {\i X,} INTEGER {\i Y,} INTEGER {\i XRadius,} INTEGER {\i YRadius})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws an ellipse and fills it 
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b fillellipse} draws an ellipse and fills it with the current fill pattern in the current fill color, using ({\i X,Y}) as the center point and {\i XRadius} and {\i YRadius}
 as the horizontal and vertical axes. As with the {\b\uldb\cf11 ellipse}{\b\v ellipse_6} predicate, the angles are counterclockwise, with 0 degrees at 3 o'clock, 90 degrees at 12 o'clock, and so on. You can get information about the last call to {\b 
fillellipse} with a call to {\b\uldb\cf11 getarccoords}{\b\v getarccoords_6}.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} fillpoly_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} fillpoly/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} fillpoly}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 fillpoly/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v fillpoly_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b fillpoly}(BGI_ILIST {\i PolyPointsList})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws and fills a polygon
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b fillpoly} draws the outline of a polygon in the current line style and color (just as {\b\uldb\cf11 drawpoly}{\b\v drawpoly_1} does), then fills the polygon using the current fill style and fill color.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} fillpoly_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 drawpoly}{\b\v drawpoly_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 floodfill}{\b\v floodfill_3}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setfillstyle}{\b\v setfillstyle_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} floodfill_3}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} floodfill/3}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} floodfill}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 floodfill/3\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2127 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 drawpoly}{\v drawpoly_1}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b floodfill}(INTEGER {\i X,} INTEGER {\i Y,} INTEGER {\i Border})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Flood-fills a bounded region
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b floodfill} fills an enclosed area on bitmap devices. ({\i X,Y}) is a "seed point" within the enclosed area to be filled. The area bounded by the color {\i Border} is flooded with the current {\b\uldb\cf11 fill pattern}
{\v Filling} and fill color. If the seed point is within an enclosed area, then the inside will be filled. If the seed is outside the enclosed area, then the exterior will be filled.
\par Use {\b\uldb\cf11 fillpoly}{\b\v fillpoly_1} instead of {\b floodfill} whenever possible so that you can maintain code compatibility with future versions.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 1707\tab Out of memory in flood fill.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0,GraphDriver,GraphMode,""),
\par \pard\plain \s20\fi-567\li851 \f11\fs20 /* Draw a bar, then flood-fill the side and top */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 setcolor(white),
\par setfillstyle(hatch_FILL, lightmagenta),
\par bar3d(10, 10, 100, 100, 10, 1),
\par setfillstyle(solid_FILL, lightgreen),
\par \pard\plain \s20\fi-3402\li3686\tx3686 \f11\fs20 floodfill(102, 50, white),\tab /* fill the side */
\par floodfill(50, 8, white),\tab /* fill the top */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getarccoords_6}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getarccoords/6}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getarccoords}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getarccoords/6\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 arc}{\v arc_5}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getarccoords}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y,} INTEGER {\i Xstart,} INTEGER {\i Ystart,} INTEGER {\i Xend,} INTEGER {\i Yend})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o,o,o,o,o,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Gets coordinates of the last call to {\b arc}
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getarccoords} binds its arguments to values that give information about the last call to {\b\uldb\cf11 arc}{\b\v arc_5}.
\par The variables are used to specify the center point ({\i X,Y}), the starting position ({\i Xstart, Ystart}), and the ending position ({\i Xend, Yend}) of the arc. These values are useful if you need to make a line meet at the end of an arc.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getaspectratio_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getaspectratio/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getaspectratio}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getaspectratio/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 arc}{\v arc_5}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getaspectratio}(INTEGER {\i Xasp, }INTEGER{\i  Yasp}){\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the current graphics mode's aspect ratio
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the values in {\i Xasp} and {\i Yasp}.
\par The Y aspect factor, {\i Yasp}, is normalized to 10,000; on all graphics adapters except the VGA, {\i Xasp} (the X aspect factor) is less than {\i Yasp} because the pixels are taller than they're wide. On the VGA, which has "square" pixels, {\i Xasp}
 equals {\i Yasp}. In general, the relationship between {\i Yasp} and {\i Xasp} can be stated as:
\par \pard\plain \s27 \f5\fs20 {\i Yasp}\tab   =  10,000
\par {\i Xasp}\tab <=  10,000
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getbkcolor_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getbkcolor/1 }} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getbkcolor }} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}
} getbkcolor/1 \tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v getbkcolor_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getbkcolor}(INTEGER {\i BkColor}){\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the current background color
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getbkcolor} binds BkColor to the current background color.
\par {\b Note}: For CGA systems operating in "high-resolution" mode (640x200), the background color is always black. What the CGA refers to as background in this mode is actually the foreground color.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0,GraphDriver,GraphMode,""),
\par getbkcolor(SvColor),\line \tab /* save current bkcolor */
\par /* Change bkcolor */
\par bitxor(SvColor,1,Xcolor),setbkcolor(Xcolor),
\par readchar(_),\tab /* read a character */
\par setbkcolor(SvColor),\line \tab /* restore old bkcolor */
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getbkcolor_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getcolor}{\b\v getcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 getpalette}{\b\v getpalette_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor}{\b\v setbkcolor_1}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getcolor_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getcolor/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getcolor}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 getcolor/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\uldb\cf11 See also}{\v getcolor_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getcolor}(INTEGER {\i Color})
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o){\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the current drawing color
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getcolor} binds {\i Color} to the current drawing color.
\par The current drawing color is the value to which pixels are set when lines, etc., are drawn. For example, in CGAC0 mode, the palette contains four colors: the background color (=0), light green (=1), light red (=2), and yellow (=3). In this mode, if {\b 
getcolor} binds Color to 1, the current drawing color is light green.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0,GraphDriver,GraphMode,""),
\par getcolor(SvColor),\line \tab /* save current drawing color */
\par setcolor(3),\tab /* set drawing color to color */
\par \tab /* stored in palette entry #3 */
\par circle(100, 100, 5),
\par \pard \s19\li284\keep\tx1843 \tab /* small colored circle */
\par setcolor(SvColor),\line \tab /* restore old drawing color */
\par \pard \s19\li284\keep closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getcolor_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getbkcolor}{\b\v getcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 getmaxcolor}{\b\v getmaxcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 getpalette}{\b\v getpalette_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setcolor}{\b\v setcolor_1}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getdefaultpalette_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getdefaultpalette/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getdefaultpalette}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getdefaultpalette/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getdefaultpalette(}BGI_ILIST {\i DefPaletteList})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the default palette
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getdefaultpalette} returns the default palette. The default palette is the one set up by the current driver when that driver was initialized with {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getdrivername_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getdrivername/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getdrivername}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphic
s_Interface')")}} getdrivername/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getdrivername}(STRING {\i DriverName})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701li1701\sa120 \fu\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the name of the current graphics driver
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getdrivername} lets you find out which driver was loaded, based on the hardware detected. A call to {\b getdrivername} is relevant after an autodetect call to {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getfillpattern_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getfillpattern/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getfillpattern}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getfillpattern/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3544 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getfillsettings}{\v getfillsettings_2}, {\uldb\cf11 setfillpattern}{\v setfillpattern_2}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getfillpattern}(BGI_ILIST {\i PatternList})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns user-defined fill pattern
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getfillpattern} returns the user-defined fill pattern as set by {\b\uldb\cf11 setfillpattern}{\b\v setfillpattern_2} in the list {\i PatternList}, which will have eight elements.
\par Each byte in {\i PatternList} corresponds to eight pixels in the pattern. Whenever a bit in a pattern byte is set to 1, the corresponding pixel will be plotted. For example, the following user-defined fill pattern represents a checkerboard:{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li284 \f11\fs20 CheckBoard = [0xAA, 0x55, 0xAA, 0x55, 0xAA, 0x55, 0xAA, 0x55]{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getfillsettings_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getfillsettings/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getfillsettings}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getfillsettings/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1560\tx2977 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v getfillsettings_see_also}\tab {\uldb\cf11 Example}{\v _getfillsettings_examples}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getfillsettings}(INTEGER {\i FillPattern, }INTEGER {\i FillColor})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Gets information about current fill pattern and color
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 The predicates {\b\uldb\cf11 bar}{\b\v bar_4}, {\b\uldb\cf11 bar3d}{\b\v bar3d_6}, {\b\uldb\cf11 fillpoly}{\b\v fillpoly_1}, {\b\uldb\cf11 floodfill}{\b\v floodfill_3}, and {\b\uldb\cf11 pieslice}{\b\v pieslice_5}
 all fill an area with the current fill pattern in the current fill color. There are 11 predefined fill pattern styles (such as solid, crosshatch, dotted, etc.). Symbolic names for the predefined patterns are provided by constant declarations in BGI.PRE (
see the following table). In addition, you can define your own fill pattern.
\par {\b getfillsettings} fills in {\i FillPattern} and {\i FillColor} with information about the current fill pattern and its color. If {\i FillPattern} equals 12 ({\i user_FILL}), then a user-defined fill pattern is being used; otherwise, {\i FillPattern}
 refers to one of the predefined patterns.
\par The constants defined in BGI.PRE give names for the predefined fill patterns, plus an indicator for a user-defined pattern.
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1276\tx1985 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 Name\tab Value\tab Description
\par \pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-1985\li1985\tx1560 \f5\fs20 empty_FILL\tab 0\tab Fill with background color
\par solid_FILL\tab 1\tab Solid fill
\par line_FILL\tab 2\tab Fill with ---
\par ltslash_FILL\tab 3\tab Fill with ///
\par slash_FILL\tab 4\tab Fill with ///, thick lines
\par bkslash_FILL\tab 5\tab Fill with \\\\\\, thick lines
\par ltbkslash_FILL\tab 6\tab Fill with \\\\\\
\par hatch_FILL\tab 7\tab Light hatch fill
\par xhatch_FILL\tab 8\tab Heavy cross hatch fill
\par interleave_FILL\tab 9\tab Interleaving line fill
\par widedot_FILL\tab 10\tab Widely spaced dot fill
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-1985\li1985\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1560 closedot_FILL\tab 11\tab Closely spaced dot fill
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 All but {\i empty_FILL} fill with the current fill color; {\i empty_FILL} uses the current background color.{\b 
\par Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getfillsettings_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 arc}{\b\v arc_5}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 bar}{\b\v bar_4}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 bar3d}{\b\v bar3d_6}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 fillpoly}{\b\v fillpoly_1}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 floodfill}{\b\v floodfill_3}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 getfillpattern}{\b\v getfillpattern_1}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 pieslice}{\b\v pieslice_5}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 setfillpattern}{\b\v setfillpattern_2}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 setfillstyle}{\b\v setfillstyle_2}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s37\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} _getfillsettings_examples}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} /* getfillsettings examples */}} {
\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} /* getfillsettings examples */}} /* getfillsettings example */
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 gray50 = [0xaa, 0x55, 0xaa, 0x55, 0xaa, 0x55, 0xaa, 0x55],
\par initgraph(detect,0,GraphDriver,GraphMode,""),
\par getfillsettings(SavePat,SaveColor),\line \tab /* retrieve current settings */
\par getfillpattern(SavePatternList),\line \tab /* save user fill pattern */
\par setfillstyle(slash_FILL, blue),\line \tab /* change fill style */
\par bar(0, 0, 100, 100),\line \tab /* draw slash-filled blue bar */
\par setfillpattern(gray50, yellow),\line \tab /* custom fill pattern */
\par bar(100, 100, 200, 200),\line \tab /* draw customized yellow bar */
\par setfillpattern(SavePatternList,SaveColor),\line \tab /* restore user pattern */
\par setfillstyle(SavePat, SaveColor),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getgraphmode_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getgraphmode/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getgraphmode}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Ov
erview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getgraphmode/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v getgraphmode_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getgraphmode}(INTEGER {\i GraphMode})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the current graphics mode
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 All the graphics drivers except the PC3270 can operate in several{\deleted\revauth17\revdttm-2047518179  different} modes. (For a full discussion, see {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}.) In order for you to call {
\b getgraphmode}, a mode needs to be already set; otherwise, there's nothing to get. A mode can be set automatically, by {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}, or manually, by {\b\uldb\cf11 setgraphmode}{\b\v setgraphmode_1}.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 getgraphmode(Cmode),\tab /* save current mode */
\par restorecrtmode,\tab /* switch to text */
\par write("\\nNow in text mode - press any key to \line go back to graphics ..."),
\par readchar(_),
\par setgraphmode(Cmode),\tab /* back to graphics */
\par /* ... */
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getgraphmode_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getmoderange}{\b\v getmoderange_3}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 restorecrtmode}{\b\v restorecrtmode_0}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setgraphmode}{\b\v setgraphmode_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getimage_5}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getimage/5}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getimage}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 getimage/5\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 imagesize}{\v imagesize_5}, {\uldb\cf11 putimage}{\v putimage_4}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getimage}(INTEGER {\i Left, }INTEGER {\i Top, }INTEGER {\i Right, }INTEGER {\i Bottom, }INTEGER {\i BitMap})
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Flow patterns}\tab (i, i, i, i, o){\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Saves a bit image of the specified rectangular region to memory
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getimage} saves a bit image of a rectangular region on the screen to memory. {\i Left, Top, Right}, and {\i Bottom} define the on-screen rectangle. You can use the variable {\i BitMap} to refer to the image.
\par There is one constraint on {\i BitMap}-variables: They can be manipulated like other variables (used as arguments to predicates, unified with other variables, etc.), but they can't be asserted into or retracted from a database.
\par This is because database strings being asserted and retracted must be null-terminated (ended with a NULL byte: 0000 0000) 
and there is no guarantee that there won't be a NULL byte in the middle of an image string. However, using the new binary block predicates operating on files and the external database system, they can be stored and retrieved here.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0,GraphDriver,GraphMode,""),
\par :
\par getimage(0,0,20,10,Buffer),\tab /* save bits */
\par :
\par putimage(0,0,Buffer,copy_PUT),\tab /* restore bits */
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getlinesettings_3}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getlinesettings/3}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getlinesettings}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getlinesettings/3\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2127 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 setlinestyle}{\v setlinestyle_3}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getlinesettings}(INTEGER {\i LineStyle, }INTEGER {\i Upattern, }INTEGER {\i Thickness})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o,o,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Gets the current line style, pattern, and thickness
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getlinesettings}
 binds its arguments to values that give information about the current line style, pattern, and thickness. BGI.PRE contains constant declarations that you can use--instead of the actual numbers--for these arguments. See {\b\uldb\cf11 setlinestyle}{\b\v 
setlinestyle_3} for more information.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0,GraphDriver,GraphMode,""),
\par /*\tab Save current line style */
\par getlinesettings(LineStyle,Upattern,Thickness),
\par setlinestyle(solid_LINE, 0, thick_WIDTH),
\par /*\tab Draw a little thick box */
\par rectangle(10, 10, 17, 15),
\par /*\tab Restore old line settings */
\par setlinestyle(LineStyle, Upattern,Thickness),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getmaxcolor_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getmaxcolor/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getmaxcolor}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}
} getmaxcolor/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3828 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getbkcolor}{\v getbkcolor_1}, {\uldb\cf11 getcolor}{\v getcolor_1}, {\uldb\cf11 getpalette}{\v getpalette_1}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmaxcolor}(INTEGER {\i MaxColor})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns maximum color value
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmaxcolor} binds to {\i MaxColor} the highest valid pixel value (palette size - 1) for the current graphics driver and mode.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getmaxmode_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getmaxmode/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getmaxmode}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 getmaxmode/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Getmaxmode}(INTEGER {\i MaxMode})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Return maximum mode value
\par {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getmaxx_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getmaxx/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getmaxx}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 getmaxx/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2410 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getmaxy}{\v getmaxy_1}, {\uldb\cf11 getx}{\v getx_1}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmaxx}(INTEGER {\i Xmax})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns maximum x screen coordinate
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmaxx} binds {\i Xmax} to the maximum (screen-relative) {\i X} value for the current graphics driver and mode.
\par For example, on a CGA in 320x200 mode, X will be 319. {\b getmaxx} is invaluable for centering, determining the boundaries of a region on the screen, and so on.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 getmaxx(X1),X=X1+1, getmaxy(Y1), Y=Y1+1,
\par write("\\nThe screen resolution is ",X," \line pixels by ",Y," pixels."),
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getmaxy_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getmaxy/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getmaxy}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 getmaxy/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2410 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getmaxx}{\v getmaxx_1}, {\uldb\cf11 gety}{\v gety_1}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmaxy}(INTEGER {\i Ymax})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns maximum y screen coordinate
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmaxy} binds {\i Ymax} to the maximum (screen-relative) {\i Y} value for the current graphics driver and mode.
\par For example, on a CGA in 320x200 mode, Y will be 199. {\b getmaxy} is invaluable for centering, determining the boundaries of a region on the screen, and so on.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getmodename_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getmodename/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getmodename}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}
} getmodename/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmodename}(INTEGER {\i Mode_number, }STRING {\i Mode_name})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns name of a graphics mode
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmodename} takes a mode number as input and returns a string containing the name of that mode. {\b getmodename}
 allows you to inquire the ASCII names of the driver modes; with it, your program can build a menu of the available mode names.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getmoderange_3}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getmoderange/3}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getmoderange}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getmoderange/3\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v getmoderange_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmoderange}(INTEGER {\i Graphdriver, }INTEGER {\i Lomode, }INTEGER {\i Himode})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,o,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Gets the range of modes for a given graphics driver
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getmoderange} gets the range of valid graphics modes for the given graphics driver, {\i Graphdriver}. {\i Lomode} is bound to the lowest permissible mode value and {\i Himode} to the highest value. If {\i Graphdriver}
 specifies an invalid graphics driver, both {\i Lomode} and {\i Himode} are bound to -1.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 getmoderange(cga, Lo, Hi),
\par writef("CGA supports modes % through %\\n", Lo, Hi),
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getmoderange_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getgraphmode}{\b\v getgraphmode_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setgraphmode}{\b\v setgraphmode_1}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getpalette_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getpalette/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getpalette}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 getpalette/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v getpalette_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getpalette}(BGI_ILIST {\i PaletteList})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns information about the current palette
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getpalette} returns a list, {\i PaletteList}, which consists of the raw (hardware oriented) color numbers in the current palette.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0,GraphDriver,GraphMode,""),
\par \pard\plain \s36\li851\keep \f11\fs20 /*Get current palette */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 getpalette(Palette), getmaxcolors(MaxColor),
\par showcolors(0,MaxColor),
\par changepalette(MaxColor),
\par \pard\plain \s36\li851\keep \f11\fs20 /*Restore original palette */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 setallpalette(Palette),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 showcolors(MaxColor,MaxColor) :- !.
\par \pard\plain \s19\keep \f11\fs20 showcolor(Color,MaxColor) :-
\par \pard \s19\li284\keep setfillstyle(solid_FILL,Color),
\par \pard\plain \s36\li851\keep \f11\fs20 /*\tab Draw some colorful bars */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 ColL=20*(Color-1), ColR = 20*Color,
\par bar(ColL,0,ColR,20),
\par Color2 = Color+1,
\par showcolor(Color2,MaxColor).
\par \pard \s19\keep changepalette(1) :- !.
\par /* only if more than 1 color */
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 changepalette(Size) :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 repeat,
\par random(Size,R1), random(Size,R2),
\par setpalette(R1,R2),
\par keypressed, !, readchar(_).
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getpalette_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getbkcolor}{\b\v getbkcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 getcolor}{\b\v getcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\b\v setallpalette_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setpalette}{\b\v setpalette_2}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getpalettesize_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getpalettesize/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getpalettesize}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getpalettesize/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getpalettesize}(INTEGER {\i PaletteSize})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the size of the palette color look-up table
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getpalettesize} lets you accurately and consistently check the size of the color look-up table.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getpixel_3}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getpixel/3}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getpixel}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 getpixel/3\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getimage}{\v getimage_5}, {\uldb\cf11 putpixel}{\v putpixel_3}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getpixel}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y, }INTEGER {\i Color})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Gets the color of a specified pixel
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getpixel} binds {\i Color} to the color of the pixel located at (X,Y).{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0,GraphDriver,GraphMode,""),
\par getmaxcolor(MaxColor), Max = MaxColor + 1,
\par \pard\plain \s36\li851\keep \f11\fs20 /* Change color of pixels in a diagonal line */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 changecolors(1,Max),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 changecolors(200,_) :- !.
\par changecolors(I,Max) :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 getpixel(I,I,Color),
\par bitxor(Color,I,ColorX), NewColor = ColorX mod Max,
\par putpixel(I,I,NewColor),
\par I2 = I+1, changecolors(I2,Max).
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} gettextsettings_5}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} gettextsettings/5}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} gettextsettings}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} gettextsettings/5\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v gettextsettings_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b gettextsettings}(INTEGER {\i Font, }INTEGER {\i Direction, }INTEGER {\i CharSize, }INTEGER {\i Horiz, }INTEGER {\i Vert})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o,o,o,o,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns information about the current graphics text font
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b gettextsettings} binds its arguments to values that give information about the current text font, direction, size, and justification.
\par Constant declarations for text settings are defined in BGI.PRE.
\par {\b gettextsettings} returns the general settings for text. Always use {\b\uldb\cf11 textheight}{\b\v textheight_2} and {\b\uldb\cf11 textwidth}{\b\v textwidth_2} to determine the actual dimensions of text about to be put on the screen.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Since stroked fonts can be stored on disk, errors can occur when you try to load them. If an error occurs, a run-time error will be generated with one of the following values:
\par \pard\plain \s35\fi-851\li851\tx851 \f5\fs20 1708\tab Font file not found.
\par 1709\tab Not enough memory to load font.
\par 1711\tab Graphics error.
\par 1712\tab Graphics I/O error.
\par 1713\tab Invalid font file.
\par 1714\tab Invalid font number.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0,_,_,""),
\par gettextsettings(Font,Dir,Char,Horiz,Vert),
\par \pard\plain \s20\fi-567\li851 \f11\fs20 /* Switch to horizontal, upper left-justified,Gothic font, scaled by a factor of 5 */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 settextjustify(left_TEXT, top_TEXT),
\par settextstyle(gothic_FONT, horiz_DIR, 5),
\par outtext("Gothic Text"),
\par \pard\plain \s20\fi-567\li851 \f11\fs20 /* Restore previous settings */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 settextjustify(Horiz, Vert),
\par settextstyle(Font, Direction,Char),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} gettextsettings_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\b\v outtext_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 outtextxy}{\b\v outtextxy_3}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 settextjustify}{\b\v settextjustify_2}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 settextstyle}{\b\v settextstyle_3}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 textheight}{\b\v textheight_2}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 textwidth}{\b\v textwidth_2}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getviewsettings_5}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getviewsettings/5}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} getviewsettings}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getviewsettings/5\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3544 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 clearviewport}{\v clearviewport_0}, {\uldb\cf11 setviewport}{\v setviewport_5}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getviewsettings}(INTEGER {\i Left, }INTEGER {\i Top, }INTEGER {\i Right, }INTEGER {\i Bottom, }INTEGER {\i ClipFlag})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o,o,o,o,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns information about the current viewport
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getviewsettings} binds its arguments to values that give information about the current viewport.
\par If {\i ClipFlag} = 0, it will be somewhat faster to produce graphics output, but any oversize graphics will also show outside the current viewport. A nonzero value for {\i ClipFlag}
 turns clipping on, which prevents oversize graphics from showing outside the viewport.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 /* Get current settings */
\par getviewsettings(Left,Top,Right,Bottom,_),
\par setviewport(Left,Top,Right,Bottom,1). /* turn clipping on */
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getx_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} getx/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {
\cs22\super K} getx}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} getx/1\tab BGI gra
phics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v getx_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getx}(INTEGER {\i Xcur})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the current position's x coordinate
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b getx} binds {\i Xcur} to the current position's X coordinate. The value is viewport-relative.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 getx(OldX), gety(OldY),
\par circle(100, 100, 2),\line \tab /* draw a blob at [100,100] */
\par moveto(99,100),
\par linerel(2,0),
\par moveto(OldX, OldY).\line \tab /* back to the old position */
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} getx_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getviewsettings}{\b\v getviewsettings_5}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 gety}{\b\v gety_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 moveto}{\b\v moveto_2}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} gety_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} gety/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 
{\cs22\super K} gety}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} gety/1\tab B
GI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v gety_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b gety}(INTEGER {\i Ycur})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the current position's y coordinate
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b gety} binds {\i Ycur} to the current position's Y coordinate. The value is viewport-relative.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} gety_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getx}{\b\v getx_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 getviewsettings}{\b\v getviewsettings_5}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 moveto}{\b\v moveto_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} graphdefaults_0}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} graphdefaults/0}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} graphdefaults}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} graphdefaults/0\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3261 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\v initgraph_5}, {\uldb\cf11 setgraphmode}{\v setgraphmode_1}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b graphdefaults}({\i None})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab None
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Resets all graphics settings to their defaults
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b graphdefaults} resets all graphics settings to their defaults, as follows:
\par \pard\plain \s32\fi-284\li284\sa60\tx284\tx567 \f5\fs20 {\f1 \'b7\tab }sets the viewport to the entire screen (see {\b\uldb\cf11 setviewport}{\b\v setviewport_5})
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }moves the current position to (0,0)
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }sets the default palette colors, background color, and drawing color (see {\b\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\b\v setallpalette_1}, {\b\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor}{\b\v setbkcolor_1}) sets the default fill style and pattern (see {\b\uldb\cf11 
setfillpattern}{\b\v setfillpattern_2}, {\b\uldb\cf11 setfillstyle}{\b\v setfillstyle_2})
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }sets the default text font and justification (see {\b\uldb\cf11 settextjustify}{\b\v settextjustify_2}, {\b\uldb\cf11 settextstyle}{\b\v settextstyle_3}){\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} imagesize_5}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} imagesize/5}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} imagesize}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 imagesize/5\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getimage}{\v getimage_5}, {\uldb\cf11 putimage}{\v putimage_4}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b imagesize}(INTEGER {\i Left, }INTEGER {\i Top, }INTEGER {\i Right, }INTEGER {\i Bottom, }INTEGER {\i Size})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the number of bytes required to store a bit image
\par {\b Remarks 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b imagesize} determines the number of bytes necessary for {\b\uldb\cf11 getimage}{\b\v getimage_5} to save an image. {\b imagesize} binds {\i Size} to the size of the memory a
rea required to store the image. The image to be stored is defined by the rectangle whose upper-left and lower-right corners are ({\i Top, Left}) and ({\i Bottom, Right}), respectively. The value to which {\i Size}
 is bound includes space for the width and height of the rectangle. If the size required for the selected image is greater than or equal to 64K bytes, Size will be 0xFFFF. All sizes greater than decimal 32767 are negative if considered as plain integers.{
\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} initgraph_5}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} initgraph/5}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} initgraph}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 initgraph/5\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1560\tx2977 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v initgraph_see_also}\tab {\uldb\cf11 Example}{\v _initgraph_example}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b initgraph}(INTEGER {\i Graphdriver, }INTEGER {\i Graphmode, }INTEGER {\i NewDriver, }INTEGER {\i NewMode, }INTEGER {\i PathtoDriver})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,o,o,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Initializes the graphics system
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b initgraph} initializes the graphics system by loading a graphics driver from disk (or validating a registered driver), and puts the system into graphics mode. {\b initgraph} binds {\i NewDriver} and {\i NewMode}
 to the actual graphics driver and mode.
\par You can tell {\b initgraph} to use a particular graphics driver and mode, or to auto-detect the attached video adapter at run time and pick the corresponding driver. If you tell {\b initgraph} to auto-detect, it calls {\b\uldb\cf11 detectgraph}{\b\v 
detectgraph_2} to select a graphics driver and mode. {\b initgraph} also resets all graphics settings to their defaults (current position, palette, color, viewport, etc.).
\par Normally, {\b initgraph} loads a graphics driver by first allocating memory (from Prolog's heap manager) for the driver, then loading the appropr
iate .BGI file from disk. As an alternative to this dynamic loading scheme, you can link a graphics driver (or several of them) directly into your executable program file.
\par {\i PathtoDriver} specifies the directory path in which {\b initgraph} will look for the graphics drivers (the .BGI files). {\b initgraph} first looks in the path specified in {\i PathtoDriver}
, then (if the files aren't there) in the current directory. Accordingly, if {\i PathtoDriver} is empty (""), the driver files (*.BGI) must be in the current directory.
\par {\i Graphdriver} is an integer that specifies the graphics driver to be used. You can use the following symbolic constants, defined in BGI.PRE, instead of the integers.
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 Constant \tab Value
\par \pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-1418\li1418\tx1418 \f5\fs20 detect\tab 0 (requests autodetection)
\par cga\tab 1
\par mcga\tab 2
\par ega\tab 3
\par ega64\tab 4
\par egamono\tab 5
\par ibm8514\tab 6
\par hercmono\tab 7
\par att400\tab 8
\par vga\tab 9
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-1418\li1418\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1418 pc3270\tab 10
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\i Graphmode} is an integer that specifies the initial graphics mode, unless {\i Graphdriver }equals detect (in which case the mode is set to the highest resolution available for the detected driver and {\i NewMode}
 is bound to the corresponding value). You can use the following constants, defined in BGI.PRE, to specify the graphics mode.
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx993\tx1985\tx2694\tx3686\tx4536 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 Graphics\tab Graphics\tab Value\tab Column\tab Palette\tab Pages
\par \pard \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx993\tx1985\tx2694\tx3686\tx4536 Driver\tab Modes\tab \tab x Row\tab 
\par \pard\plain \s23\qj\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 \f5\fs20 CGA\tab cgaC0\tab 0\tab 320x200\tab C0\tab 1
\par \tab cgaC1\tab 1\tab 320x200\tab C1\tab 1
\par \tab cgaC2\tab 2\tab 320x200\tab C2\tab 1
\par \tab cgaC3\tab 3\tab 320x200\tab C3\tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 \tab cgaHI\tab 4\tab 640x200\tab 2 color \tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 MCGA \tab mcgaC0\tab 0\tab 320x200\tab C0\tab 1
\par \tab mcgaC1\tab 1\tab 320x200\tab C1\tab 1
\par \tab mcgaC2\tab 2\tab 320x200\tab C2\tab 1
\par \tab mcgaC3\tab 3\tab 320x200\tab C3\tab 1
\par \tab mcgaMED \tab 4\tab 640x200\tab 2 color \tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 \tab mcgaHI\tab 5\tab 640x480\tab 2 color \tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 EGA\tab egaLO\tab 0\tab 640x200\tab 16 color \tab 4
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 \tab egaHI\tab 1\tab 640x350\tab 16 color \tab 2
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 EGA64\tab ega64LO \tab 0\tab 640x200\tab 16 color\tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 \tab ega64HI \tab 1\tab 640x350\tab 4 color \tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 EGA-\tab egaMONOHI\tab 3 \tab 640x350\tab 2 color\tab 1*
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 MONO\tab egaMONOHI\tab 3 \tab 640x350\tab 2 color\tab 2**
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 IBM8514\tab ibm8415LO\tab 0 \tab 640x480\tab 256 color \tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 \tab ibm8415HI\tab 1 \tab 1024x768\tab 256 color \tab 1
\par HERC\tab hercMONOHI\tab 0 \tab 720x348\tab 2 color\tab 2
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 ATT400\tab att400C0\tab 0 \tab 320x200\tab C0\tab 1
\par \tab att400C1\tab 1 \tab 320x200\tab C1\tab 1
\par \tab att400C2\tab 2 \tab 320x200\tab C2\tab 1
\par \tab att400C3\tab 3 \tab 320x200\tab C3\tab 1
\par \tab att400MED \tab 4 \tab 640x200\tab 2 color\tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 \tab att400HI\tab 5 \tab 640x400\tab 2 color\tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 VGA \tab vgaLO \tab 0 \tab 640x200\tab 16 color\tab 2
\par \tab vgaMED\tab 1 \tab 640x350\tab 16 color\tab 2
\par \tab vgaHI \tab 2 \tab 640x480\tab 16 color\tab 1
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 \tab vgaXLO\tab 
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx851\tx2268\tx2694\tx3686\tx4678 PC3270\tab pc3270HI\tab 0 \tab 720x350  \tab 2 color\tab 1
\par \pard\plain \s27 \f5\fs20 *   64K on egaMONO card
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 ** 256K on egaMONO card
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 The {\i Palette}
 listings C0, C1, C2, and C3 refer to the four predefined four-color palettes available on CGA (and compatible) systems. You can select the background color (entry #0) in each of these palettes, but the other colors are fixed. These palettes are described
 in greater detail in the {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst {\i  TITLE  \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt {\i PDC Prolog}}}{\i  User's Guide} (under "Color Control") and are summarized in the following table.
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp120 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 \tab Color assigned to pixel value 
\par \pard \s24\sb120\keep\tx7655 Palette {\ul \tab }
\par \pard \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1134\tx2127\tx3261 number\tab 1\tab 2\tab 3
\par \pard\plain \s23\qj\keep\tx284\tx851\tx1843\tx3119 \f5\fs20 \tab 0\tab lightgreen\tab lightred\tab yellow
\par \tab 1\tab lightcyan\tab lightmagenta\tab white
\par \tab 2\tab green\tab red\tab brown
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx284\tx851\tx1843\tx3119 \tab 3\tab cyan\tab magenta\tab lightgrey
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 After a call to {\b initgraph}, {\i NewDriver} is bound to the current graphics driver, and {\i NewMode} is bound to the current graphics mode.{\b 
\par Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par Errors} 
\par If an error occurred, the system generates a run-time error with one of the following codes:
\par \pard\plain \s35\fi-851\li851\tx851 \f5\fs20 1702\tab Graphics hardware not detected.
\par 1703\tab Device driver file not found.
\par 1704\tab Invalid device driver file.
\par 1705\tab Not enough memory to load driver.
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} initgraph_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 closegraph}{\b\v closegraph}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 detectgraph}{\b\v detectgraph_2}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 getgraphmode}{\b\v getgraphmode_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 restorecrtmode}{\b\v restorecrtmode_0}{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s37\sb60\sa60\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} _initgraph_example}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} /* initgraph example */}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} /* initgraph example */}} /* initgraph example */
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par predicates
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 demo
\par error(integer)
\par demo2
\par convertmode(integer,integer)
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 CLAUSES
\par demo :- trap(demo2,E,error(E)).
\par error(E) :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 write("\\nRun time error:",E),
\par errormsg("prolog.err", E,Msg,ExtraHlp),
\par write("\\n",Msg,"\\n",ExtraHlp),
\par flushbuf(keyboard), readchar(_), exit(1).
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 demo2 :-
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 detectgraph(G_driver, G_mode),
\par writef("Detected graphics driver #%, mode #%\\n",
\par \pard \s19\li1276\keep G_driver,G_mode),
\par \pard \s19\li284\keep readchar(_),
\par convertmode(G_mode,NewMode),
\par initgraph(detect, 0, G_driver, G_mode),
\par \pard\plain \s36\li851\keep \f11\fs20 getmaxx(X), X2=X div 2, getmaxy(Y),
\par bar(0, 0, X2,Y),
\par readchar(_),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 convertmode(egaHI,egaLO) :- !.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 /* override mode if EGA detected */
\par \pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 convertmode(Mode,Mode).
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} line_4}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} line/4}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {
\cs22\super K} line}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} line/4\tab 
BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v line_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b line}(INTEGER {\i X0, }INTEGER {\i Y0, }INTEGER {\i X1, }INTEGER {\i Y1})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws a line between two specified points
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b line} draws a line in the current color, using the current line style and thickness, between the two points specified, ({\i X0,Y0}) and ({\i X1,Y1}), without updating the current position (CP).{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} line_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getlinesettings}{\b\v getlinesettings_3}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 linerel}{\b\v linerel_2}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 lineto}{\b\v lineto_2}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setcolor}{\b\v setcolor_1}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} linerel_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} linerel/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} linerel}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 linerel/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b linerel}(INTEGER {\i Dx, }INTEGER {\i Dy})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws a line a relative distance from the current position (CP)
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b linerel} draws a line from the CP to a point that is a relative distance ({\i Dx,Dy}) from the CP. The CP is moved by the length ({\i Dx,Dy}).{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} linerel_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getlinesettings}{\b\v getlinesettings_3}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 line}{\b\v line_4}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 lineto}{\b\v lineto_2}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setcolor}{\b\v setcolor_1}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} lineto_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} lineto/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} lineto}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} lineto/2
\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v lineto_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b lineto}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws a line from the current position (CP) to (X,Y)
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b lineto} draws a line from the CP to ({\i X,Y}), then moves the CP to ({\i X,Y}).{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} lineto_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getlinesettings}{\b\v getlinesettings_3}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 line}{\b\v line_4}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 linerel}{\b\v linerel_2}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setcolor}{\b\v setcolor_1}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} moverel_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} moverel/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} moverel}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 moverel/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1985 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 moveto}{\v moveto_2}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b moverel}(INTEGER {\i Dx, }INTEGER {\i Dy})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Moves the current position (CP) a relative distance
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b moverel} moves the current position (CP) {\i Dx} pixels in the X direction and {\i Dy} pixels in the Y direction.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} moveto_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} moveto/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} moveto}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} moveto/2
\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2127 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 moverel}{\v moverel_2}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b moveto}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Moves the CP to (X,Y)
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b moveto} moves the current position (CP) to viewport position ({\i X,Y}).{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} outtext_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} outtext/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} outtext}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 outtext/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v outtext_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b outtext}(STRING {\i TextString})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Displays a string in the viewport
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b outtext} displays a text string in the viewport, using the current justification settings and the current font, direction, and size.
\par {\b outtext} outputs {\i TextString} at the CP. If the horizontal text justification is {\i left_TEXT}, and the text direction is {\i horiz_DIR}, the CP's X coordinate is advanced by the width of the string {\f11 (textwidth(textstring))}
. If you don't want this to occur, call {\b\uldb\cf11 textwidth}{\b\v textwidth_2} to get the string's exact size, then--after the call to {\b outtext}--set the CP back to its previous value. For other justifications (such as {\i center_TEXT}
) and directions ({\i vert_DIR}), the CP remains unchanged.
\par In order to maintain code compatibility when using several fonts, always use the {\b\uldb\cf11 textwidth}{\b\v textwidth_2} and {\b\uldb\cf11 textheight}{\b\v textheight_2}
 predicates to determine the dimensions of the string if subsequent screen-handling and movement depend on these dimensions.
\par {\b Note}: If a string is printed with the default font, using {\b outtext} or {\b\uldb\cf11 outtextxy}{\b\v outtextxy_3}, any part of the string that extends outside the current viewport will be truncated.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} outtext_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 gettextsettings}{\b\v gettextsettings_5}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 outtextxy}{\b\v outtextxy_3}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 textheight}{\b\v textheight_2}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 textwidth}{\b\v textwidth_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} outtextxy_3}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} outtextxy/3}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} outtextxy}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 outtextxy/3\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v outtextxy_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b outtextxy}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y, }STRING{\i  Textstring})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Displays a string at the specified location
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b outtextxy} displays a text string in  the viewport, using the current justification settings and the current font, direction, and size.
\par {\b outtextxy} outputs {\i Textstring} at the given position ({\i X,Y}).
\par In order to maintain code compatibility when using several fonts, always use the {\b\uldb\cf11 textwidth}{\b\v textwidth_2} and {\b\uldb\cf11 textheight}{\b\v textheight_2}
 predicates to determine the dimensions of the string if subsequent screen-handling and movement depend on these dimensions.
\par If a string is printed with the default bit-mapped font using {\b\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\b\v outtext_1} or {\b outtextxy}, any part of the string that extends outside the current viewport will be truncated.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} outtextxy_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 gettextsettings}{\b\v gettextsettings_5}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\b\v outtext_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 textheight}{\b\v textheight_2}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 textwidth}{\b\v textwidth_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} pieslice_5}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} pieslice/5}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} pieslice}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 pieslice/5\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2127 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 setfillstyle}{\v setfillstyle_2}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b pieslice}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y, }INTEGER {\i Stangle, }INTEGER {\i Endangle, }INTEGER {\i Radius})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws and fills in a pie slice
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b pieslice} draws and fills a pie slice centered at ({\i X,Y}) with a radius given by {\i Radius}. The slice travels from {\i Stangle} to {\i Endangle}
. The slice is outlined in the current drawing color and then filled using the current {\uldb\cf11 fill pattern}{\v Filling} and fill color.
\par The angles for {\b pieslice} are counterclockwise, with 0 degrees at 3 o'clock, 90 degrees at 12 o'clock, etc.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} pieslicexy_6}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} pieslicexy/6}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} pieslicexy}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 pieslicexy/6\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b pieslicexy}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y, }INTEGER {\i StAngle, }INTEGER {\i EndAngle, }INTEGER {\i XRadius, }INTEGER {\i YRadius})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws and fills an elliptical pie slice 
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b pieslicexy} draws the elliptical pie slice from {\i StAngle} to {\i EndAngle}, using ({\i X, Y}) as the center point and {\i XRadius} and {\i YRadius}
 as the horizontal and vertical radii, respectively. The pie slice is outlined using the current drawing color, and filled using the current fill pattern and fill color.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} putimage_4}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} putimage/4}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} putimage}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 putimage/4\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2127 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getimage}{\v getimage}{\b0\v _5}{\b0 \tab }{\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b putimage}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y, }STRING {\i Bitmap, }INTEGER {\i BitOp})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Puts a bit image onto the screen
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b putimage} puts the bit image previously saved with {\b\uldb\cf11 getimage}{\b\v getimage_5} back onto the screen, with the upper left corner of the image placed at ({\i Left,Top}). {\i Bitmap}
 contains the source image and is represented as type string, but it would have been more correct to let it belong to a binary type. It will probably be changed in a later version.
\par The {\i BitOp} argument to {\b putimage} specifies how the color for each destination pixel on screen is computed, based on the pixel already on screen and the corresponding source pixel in the image.
\par BGI.PRE declares the following constant for {\i BitOp}:
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx993\tx1701 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 Name\tab Value\tab Description
\par \pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-1701\li1701\tx1134 \f5\fs20 copy_PUT\tab 0\tab Copy
\par xor_PUT\tab 1\tab Exclusiveor
\par or_PUT\tab 2\tab Inclusiveor
\par and_PUT\tab 3\tab And
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-1701\li1701\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1134 not_PUT\tab 4\tab Copy the inverse of the source
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 In words, {\i copy_PUT} will copy the source bitmap image onto the screen, {\i xor_PUT} will XOR the source image with that already on screen, {\i or_PUT} will OR the source image with that on screen, etc.{\b 
\par Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} putpixel_3}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} putpixel/3}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} putpixel}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 putpixel/3\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getpixel}{\v getpixel_3}, {\uldb\cf11 putimage}{\v putimage_4}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b putpixel}(INTEGER {\i X, }INTEGER {\i Y, }INTEGER {\i Pixelcolor})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Plots a pixel at a specified point
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b putpixel} plots a point in the color defined by {\i Pixelcolor} at ({\i X,Y}).{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} rectangle_4}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} rectangle/4}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} rectangle}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 rectangle/4\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3544 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 bar}{\v bar_4}, {\uldb\cf11 setcolor}{\v setcolor_1}, {\uldb\cf11 setlinestyle}{\v setlinestyle_3}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b rectangle}(INTEGER {\i Left, }INTEGER {\i Top, }INTEGER {\i Right, }INTEGER{\ul  }{\i Bottom})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Draws a rectangle
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b rectangle} draws a rectangle in the current line style, thickness, and drawing color.
\par ({\i Left,Top}) is the upper left corner of the rectangle, and ({\i Right,Bottom}) is its lower right corner.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 rectangle(20,20,100,100)
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} restorecrtmode_0}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} restorecrtmode/0}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} restorecrtmode}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} restorecrtmode/0\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3544 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\v initgraph_5}, {\uldb\cf11 setgraphmode}{\v setgraphmode_1}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b restorecrtmode}({\i None})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab None
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Restores the screen mode to its pre-{\b initgraph} setting
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b restorecrtmode} restores the original video mode detected by {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}
. If the text mode is different from 80x25, then you should also call the textmode predicate to restore the original screen. This predicate can be used in conjunction with {\b\uldb\cf11 setgraphmode}{\b\v setgraphmode_1}
 to switch back and forth between text and graphics modes.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setactivepage_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setactivepage/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setactivepage}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview
_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setactivepage/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2552 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 setvisualpage}{\v setvisualpage_1}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setactivepage}(INTEGER {\i Page})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets active page for graphics output
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setactivepage} makes {\i Page} the active graphics page. All subsequent graphics output will be directed to graphics page number {\i Page}.
\par The active graphics page might or might not be the one you see on-screen, depending on how many graphics pages are available on your system. Only the EGA, VGA, and Hercules graphics cards support multiple pages.
\par With multiple graphics pages, your program can direct graphics output to an off-screen page, then quickly display the off-screen image by changing the visual page with a call to {\b\uldb\cf11 setvisualpage}{\b\v setvisualpage_1}
. This technique is especially useful for animation.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 cleardevice,
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 setvisualpage(0),\line \tab /* make page 0 (blank page) visible */
\par setactivepage(1),\line \tab /* use page 1 for output */
\par bar(50, 50, 150, 150),\line \tab /* draw a bar in page 1 */
\par setvisualpage(1).\line \tab /* show page 1 (with bar) */
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setallpalette_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setallpalette/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setallpalette}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setallpalette/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v setallpalette_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setallpalette}(BGI_ILIST {\i PaletteList})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Changes all palette colors as specified.
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setallpalette} sets the entries in the palette to the values in the list {\i PaletteList}.
\par \pard \s16\sa240 The values in the list {\i PaletteList}  are the actual "raw" (hardware-oriented) numbers for the driver in question. BGI.PRE contains constant declarations for the most common colors on EGA/VGA systems, as shown in the following table:

\par \pard\plain \s24\fi993\sb120\keep\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp120 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\i Actual Color Table 
\par }\pard \s24\fi851\sb120\keep\tx2835 CGA\tab EGA/VGA
\par \pard \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1134\tx1985\tx3969 Name\tab Value\tab Name\tab Value
\par \pard\plain \s23\qj\keep\tx1276\tx1985\tx4111 \f5\fs20 black\tab   0\tab ega_BLACK\tab   0
\par blue\tab   1\tab ega_BLUE\tab   1
\par green\tab   2\tab ega_GREEN\tab   2
\par cyan\tab   3\tab ega_CYAN\tab   3
\par red\tab   4\tab ega_RED\tab   4
\par magenta\tab   5\tab ega_MAGENTA\tab   5
\par brown\tab   6\tab ega_BROWN\tab 20
\par lightgray\tab   7\tab ega_LIGHTGRAY\tab   7
\par darkgrey\tab   8\tab ega_DARKGRAY\tab 56
\par lightblue\tab   9\tab ega_LIGHTBLUE\tab 57
\par lightgreen\tab 10\tab ega_LIGHTGREEN\tab 58
\par lightcyan\tab 11\tab ega_LIGHTCYAN\tab 59
\par lightred\tab 12\tab ega_LIGHTRED\tab 60
\par lightmagenta\tab 13\tab ega_LIGHTMAGENTA\tab 61
\par yellow\tab 14\tab ega_YELLOW\tab 62
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1276\tx1985\tx4111 white\tab 15\tab ega_WHITE\tab 63
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 
Note that the size of the palette and the number of valid colors depend on the current graphics driver and current graphics mode. For instance, on EGA/VGA systems, the palette contains 16 entries, and the "raw" color numbers range from 0 to 63.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Changes made to the palette are seen immediately on the screen. Each time a palette color is changed, all occurrences of that color on the screen will change to the new color value.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 1711\tab Graphics error. If invalid input is passed to {\b setallpalette} (such as an over- or undersized {\i PaletteList}); the current palette will remain unchanged.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setallpalette_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getpalette}{\b\v getpalette_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor}{\b\v setbkcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setcolor}{\b\v setcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setpalette}{\b\v setpalette_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setaspectratio_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setaspectratio/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setaspectratio}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setaspectratio/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setaspectratio}(INTEGER {\i Xasp, }INTEGER {\i Yasp})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Changes the default aspect-ratio correction factor
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setaspectratio} allows you to change the default aspect-ratio correction factor. The arguments {\i Xasp} and {\i Yasp} are, respectively, the new horizontal and vertical aspect factors for the current graphics mode. {
\b setaspectratio} is generally used to modify the aspect ratio in cases where monitor alignment produces oval circles.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setbkcolor_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setbkcolor/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setbkcolor}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 setbkcolor/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v setbkcolor_see_also}\tab {\uldb\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setbkcolor}(INTEGER {\i Color})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets the current background color using the palette
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setbkcolor} sets the background to the color specified by {\i Color}
, which is the actual "raw" (hardware-oriented) color number. BGI.PRE declares a number of suitable constants for CGA and EGA/VGA systems, as shown in this table:
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s24\fi993\sb120\keep\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp120 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\i Actual Color Table 
\par }\pard \s24\fi851\sb120\keep\tx2835 CGA\tab EGA/VGA
\par \pard \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1134\tx1985\tx3969 Name\tab Value\tab Name\tab Value
\par \pard\plain \s23\qj\keep\tx1276\tx1985\tx4111 \f5\fs20 black\tab   0\tab ega_BLACK\tab   0
\par blue\tab   1\tab ega_BLUE\tab   1
\par green\tab   2\tab ega_GREEN\tab   2
\par cyan\tab   3\tab ega_CYAN\tab   3
\par red\tab   4\tab ega_RED\tab   4
\par magenta\tab   5\tab ega_MAGENTA\tab   5
\par brown\tab   6\tab ega_BROWN\tab 20
\par lightgray\tab   7\tab ega_LIGHTGRAY\tab   7
\par darkgrey\tab   8\tab ega_DARKGRAY\tab 56
\par lightblue\tab   9\tab ega_LIGHTBLUE\tab 57
\par lightgreen\tab 10\tab ega_LIGHTGREEN\tab 58
\par lightcyan\tab 11\tab ega_LIGHTCYAN\tab 59
\par lightred\tab 12\tab ega_LIGHTRED\tab 60
\par lightmagenta\tab 13\tab ega_LIGHTMAGENTA\tab 61
\par yellow\tab 14\tab ega_YELLOW\tab 62
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1276\tx1985\tx4111 white\tab 15\tab ega_WHITE\tab 63
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 For example, if you want to set the background color to blue, you can call
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 setbkcolor(blue) /* or */ setbkcolor(1)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 On CGA and EGA systems, the background color is the first entry (entry #0) in the palette, which is the entry changed by {\b setbkcolor}.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Note}: If you use an EGA or a VGA and you change the default palette colors with {\uldb\cf11 setpalette}{\v setpalette}{\b\v _2} or {\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\v setallpalette}{\b\v _1}
, the defined symbolic constants might not give you the correct color, since the argument to {\b setbkcolor} indicates the entry number in the palette rather than a specific color.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setbkcolor_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getbkcolor}{\b\v getbkcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setcolor}{\b\v setcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setpalette}{\b\v setpalette_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setcolor_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setcolor/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 
\f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setcolor}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 setcolor/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v setcolor_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setcolor}(INTEGER {\i Color}){\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets the current drawing color using the palette
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setcolor} sets the current drawing color to the color in the palette corresponding to the argument {\i Color} (in other words, the color stored at palette entry {\i #Color}).
\par The drawing color is the value to which pixels are set when lines, etc., are drawn. The number of entries in the palette and their corresponding colors vary from driver to driver. For example, in {\i cgaC0}
 mode, the palette contains four colors: the background color (=0), light green (=1), light red (=2), and yellow (=3). In this mode, {\f11 setcolor(3)} selects a drawing color of yellow.
\par {\b Note}: If you use an EGA or a VGA and you change the default palette colors with {\b\uldb\cf11 setpalette}{\b\v setpalette_2} or {\b\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\b\v setallpalette_1}
, the defined symbolic constants might not give you the correct color, since the argument to {\b setcolor} indicates the entry number in the palette rather than a specific color.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setcolor_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getcolor}{\b\v getcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setbkcolor}{\b\v setbkcolor_1}{\b 
\par }{\b\uldb\cf11 setpalette}{\b\v setpalette_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setfillpattern_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setfillpattern/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setfillpattern}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setfillpattern/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3544 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getfillpattern}{\v getfillpattern_1}, {\uldb\cf11 getfillsettings}{\v getfillsettings_2}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setfillpattern}(BGI_ILIST {\i UpatternList, }INTEGER{\i  Color})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Selects a user-defined fill pattern
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setfillpattern} is like {\b\uldb\cf11 setfillstyle}{\b\v setfillstyle_2}
, except that you use it to set a user-defined 8x8 fill pattern rather than a predefined pattern. The pattern and color specified in the arguments will automatically become the current fill pattern and color.
\par {\i UpatternList} should contain 8 elements, with each byte corresponding to 8 pixels in the pattern, on an 8x8 matrix basis. Whenever a bit in a pattern byte is set to 1, the corresponding pixel will be plotted.
\par {\i Color} is an index into the palette; the fill color will be the color stored at entry {\i #Color}.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 1711\tab Graphics error. This occurs if invalid input is passed to {\b setfillpattern}. The current fill pattern and fill color will remain unchanged.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setfillstyle_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setfillstyle/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setfillstyle}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setfillstyle/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3686 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getfillsettings}{\v getfillsettings_2}, {\uldb\cf11 setfillpattern}{\v setfillpattern_2}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setfillstyle}(INTEGER {\i Pattern, }INTEGER {\i Color})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets the fill pattern and color
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setfillstyle} sets the current fill pattern to one of the predefined ones, and the current fill color to the color stored at palette entry {\i #Color}.
\par To set a user-defined fill pattern, you should not give a {\i Pattern} of 12 ({\i user_FILL}) to {\b setfillstyle}; instead, call {\b\uldb\cf11 setfillpattern}{\b\v setfillpattern_2}.
\par BGI.PRE declares the following constants for {\i Pattern}:
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1560\tx2268 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 Name\tab Value\tab Description
\par \pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-2268\li2268\tx1701 \f5\fs20 empty_FILL\tab   0\tab Fill with background color
\par solid_FILL\tab   1\tab Solid fill
\par line_FILL\tab   2\tab Fill with ---
\par ltslash_FILL\tab   3\tab Fill with ///
\par slash_FILL\tab   4\tab Fill with ///, thick lines
\par bkslash_FILL\tab   5\tab Fill with \\\\\\, thick lines
\par ltbkslash_FILL\tab   6\tab Fill with \\\\\\
\par hatch_FILL\tab   7\tab Light hatch fill
\par xhatch_FILL\tab   8\tab Heavy cross hatch fill
\par interleave_FILL\tab   9\tab Interleaving line fill
\par widedot_FILL\tab 10\tab Widely spaced dot fill
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-2268\li2268\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1701 closedot_FILL\tab 11\tab Closely spaced dot fill
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 All but {\i empty_FILL} will fill with the current fill color; {\i empty_FILL} uses the current background color.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 If you want to fill with a user-defined pattern, use the predicate {\b\uldb\cf11 setfillpattern}{\b\v setfillpattern_2}, not {\b setfillstyle}.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setgraphbufsize_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setgraphbufsize/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setgraphbufsize}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setgraphbufsize/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Setgraphbufsize}(INTEGER {\i Size})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Set size of the graphic buffer.
\par {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setgraphmode_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setgraphmode/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setgraphmode}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setgraphmode/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v setgraphmode_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setgraphmode}(INTEGER {\i Mode})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets the system to a specified graphics mode
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setgraphmode}, switches the system to the {\i Mode} graphics mode, clears the screen, and resets all graphics settings to their defaults (CP, palette, color, viewport, etc.). You can use {\b setgraphmode}
 in conjunction with {\b\uldb\cf11 restorecrtmode}{\b\v restorecrtmode_0} to switch back and forth between text and graphics modes.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 1710\tab Invalid graphics mode for selected driver.
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setgraphmode_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getgraphmode}{\b\v getgraphmode_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 initgraph}{\b\v initgraph_5}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 restorecrtmode}{\b\v restorecrtmode_0}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setlinestyle_3}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setlinestyle/3}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setlinestyle}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setlinestyle/3\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2552 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getlinesettings}{\v getlinesettings_3}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setlinestyle}(INTEGER {\i LineStyle, }INTEGER {\i Upattern, }INTEGER {\i Thickness})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets the current line width and style
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setlinestyle} sets the style for all lines drawn by {\b\uldb\cf11 line}{\b\v line_4}, {\b\uldb\cf11 lineto}{\b\v lineto_2}, {\b\uldb\cf11 rectangle}{\b\v rectangle_4}, {\b\uldb\cf11 drawpoly}{\b\v drawpoly_1}, {
\b\uldb\cf11 arc}{\b\v arc_5}, {\b\uldb\cf11 circle}{\b\v circle_3}, {\b\uldb\cf11 ellipse}{\b\v ellipse_6}, {\b\uldb\cf11 pieslice}{\b\v pieslice_5}, etc.
\par {\i LineStyle} specifies in which of several styles subsequent lines will be drawn (such as solid, dotted, centered, dashed).
\par Thickness specifies whether lines drawn subsequently will be normal or thick.
\par Upattern is a 16-bit pattern that applies only if {\i LineStyle} is {\i userbit_LINE} (that is, {\i LineStyle} = 4). In that case, whenever a bit in the {\i Upattern}
 word is 1, the corresponding pixel in the line is drawn in the current drawing color. For example, a solid line corresponds to a {\i Upattern} of {\f11 0xFFFF} (all pixels drawn), while a dashed line can correspond to a {\i Upattern} of {\f11 0x3333} or 
{\f11 0x0F0F}. If the {\i LineStyle} argument to {\b setlinestyle} is not {\i userbit_LINE} (that is, {\i LineStyle} <> 4), you must still supply {\i Upattern}, but it is ignored.
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1418\tx2410 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 Name\tab Value \tab Description
\par \pard\plain \s23\qj\sa120\keep \f5\fs20 {\i LineStyle
\par }\pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-1984\li2268\tx1701\tx2268 \f5\fs20 solid_LINE\tab 0\tab Solid line
\par dotted_LINE\tab 1\tab Dotted line
\par center_LINE\tab 2\tab Centered line
\par dashed_LINE\tab 3\tab Dashed line
\par userbit_LINE\tab 4\tab User-defined line style
\par \pard\plain \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx2268\tx2835 \f5\fs20 {\i Thickness
\par }\pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-1984\li2268\tx1701\tx2268 \f5\fs20 norm_WIDTH\tab 1\tab 1 pixel wide
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-1984\li2268\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1701\tx2268 thick_WIDTH\tab 3\tab 3 pixels wide
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 1711\tab Graphics error. This occurs if invalid input is passed to {\b setlinestyle}. The current line style will remain unchanged.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setpalette_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setpalette/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setpalette}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 setpalette/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v setpalette_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setpalette}(INTEGER {\i Index, }INTEGER {\i Actual_color})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Changes one palette color
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setpalette} changes the {\i Index} entry in the palette to {\i Actual_color}. {\i Index} is an index into the palette, and {\i Actual_color} is a "raw" (hardware-oriented) color number for the driver.
\par For example, {\f11 setpalette(0,5)} changes the first color in the palette (the background color) to actual color number 5. If {\i Size} is the number of entries in the current palette, Index can range between 0 and ({\i Size}-1).
\par You can change all the colors in the EGA/VGA palette with {\b setpalette} (or {\b\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\b\v setallpalette_1}
). On a CGA, you can only change the first entry in the palette; this means that the only valid value for Index is 0, which is the background color.
\par BGI.PRE contains constant declarations for the most common colors on CGA and EGA/VGA systems, as shown in the following table.
\par \pard\plain \s24\fi993\sb120\keep\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp120 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 {\i Actual Color Table 
\par }\pard \s24\fi851\sb120\keep\tx2835 CGA\tab EGA/VGA
\par \pard \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1134\tx1985\tx3969 Name\tab Value\tab Name\tab Value
\par \pard\plain \s23\qj\keep\tx1276\tx1985\tx4111 \f5\fs20 black\tab   0\tab ega_BLACK\tab   0
\par blue\tab   1\tab ega_BLUE\tab   1
\par green\tab   2\tab ega_GREEN\tab   2
\par cyan\tab   3\tab ega_CYAN\tab   3
\par red\tab   4\tab ega_RED\tab   4
\par magenta\tab   5\tab ega_MAGENTA\tab   5
\par brown\tab   6\tab ega_BROWN\tab 20
\par lightgray\tab   7\tab ega_LIGHTGRAY\tab   7
\par darkgrey\tab   8\tab ega_DARKGRAY\tab 56
\par lightblue\tab   9\tab ega_LIGHTBLUE\tab 57
\par lightgreen\tab 10\tab ega_LIGHTGREEN\tab 58
\par lightcyan\tab 11\tab ega_LIGHTCYAN\tab 59
\par lightred\tab 12\tab ega_LIGHTRED\tab 60
\par lightmagenta\tab 13\tab ega_LIGHTMAGENTA\tab 61
\par yellow\tab 14\tab ega_YELLOW\tab 62
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1276\tx1985\tx4111 white\tab 15\tab ega_WHITE\tab 63
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Note that the size of the palette and the number of valid colors depend o
n the current graphics driver and current graphics mode. For instance, on EGA/VGA systems, the palette contains 16 entries (0 through 15), and the "raw" color numbers range from 0 to 63.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Changes made to the palette are seen immediately on the screen. Each time a palette color is changed, all occurrences of that color on the screen will change to the new color value.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par Errors}
\par 1711\tab Graphics error. This occurs if invalid input is passed to {\b setpalette}. The current palette will remain unchanged.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setpalette_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 getbkcolor}{\b\v getbkcolor_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 getpalette}{\b\v getpalette_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setallpalette}{\b\v setallpalette_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 setcolor}{\b\v setcolor_1}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setrgbcolor_4}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setrgbcolor/4}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setrgbcolor}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}
} setrgbcolor/4\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx4395 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 Using the BGI with RGB Graphics Cards}{\v Using_the_BGI_with_RGB_Graphics_Cards}{\cf11 \tab }{\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setrgbcolor}(INTEGER {\i Index, }INTEGER {\i RedComp, }INTEGER {\i GreenComp, }INTEGER {\i BlueComp})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Changes one palette color on RGB-type color displays
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setrgbcolor} changes one palette color on RGB-type color displays, as specified by its arguments. The ar
gument Index defines which RGB palette entry is being changed: Index can range from 0--255 on the IBM 8514 and the VGA in 256K color mode. {\i RedComp, GreenComp}, and {\i BlueComp} define the component colors of the new palette entry.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setrgbpalette_4}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setrgbpalette/4}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setrgbpalette/4}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_PREDICATES}} {\cs22\super {\*\bkmkstart setrgbpalette}!{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setrgbpalette{\*\bkmkend setrgbpalette}/4\tab BGI graphics{\b0 
\par }\pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx4395 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 Using the BGI with RGB Graphics Cards}{\v Using_the_BGI_with_RGB_Graphics_Cards}{\cf11 \tab }{\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setrgbpalette}(INTEGER {\i Index, }INTEGER{\i  RedComp, }INTEGER{\i  GreenComp, }INTEGER{\i  BlueComp})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Defines palette colors for the IBM 8514.
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 The {\i Index} argument defines the palette entry to be loaded; {\i Index} is an integer ranging from 0--255. The arguments {\i RedComp, GreenComp,} and {\i BlueComp}
 define the component colors of that palette entry. Only the lower byte of each of these values is used, and out of this byte, only the 6 most-significant bits are loaded into the palette.
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 1711\tab Graphics error. If invalid input is passed to {\b setallpalette} (such as an over- or undersized {\i PaletteList}); the current palette will remain unchanged.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} settextjustify_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} settextjustify/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} settextjustify}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} settextjustify/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3686 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 gettextsettings}{\v gettextsettings_5}, {\uldb\cf11 settextstyle}{\v settextstyle_3}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b settextjustify}(INTEGER {\i Horiz, }INTEGER {\i Vert})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets text justification
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Text output after a call to {\b settextjustify} will be justified around the CP horizontally and vertically as specified by the values of {\i Horiz} and {\i Vert}. The default justification settings are {\i left_TEXT}
 (for {\i Horiz}) and {\i top_TEXT} (for {\i Vert}). Constant declarations in BGI.PRE provide names for the {\i Horiz} and {\i Vert} settings passed to {\b settextjustify}.
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1276\tx2127 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 Name\tab Value\tab Applies to Argument
\par \pard\plain \s23\qj\keep\tx1560\tx2268 \f5\fs20 left_TEXT\tab 0\tab Horiz
\par center_TEXT\tab 1\tab Horiz and Vert
\par \pard \s23\qj\sa120\keep\tx1560\tx2268 right_TEXT\tab 2\tab Horiz
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\tx1560\tx2268 bottom_TEXT\tab 0\tab Vert
\par \pard \s23\qj\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1560\tx2268 top_TEXT\tab 2\tab Vert
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 If {\i Horiz} is equal to {\i left_TEXT} and {\i Direction} equals {\i horiz_DIR}, then the CP's X component is advanced after a call to {\f11 outtext(String)} by the width of the string, {\f11 textwidth(String)}
, which is measured in pixels. See {\b\uldb\cf11 settextstyle}{\b\v settextstyle_3} for details.{\b 
\par Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 1710\tab Invalid graphics mode for selected driver. Occurs if invalid input is passed to {\b settextjustify}; the current text justification will remain unchanged.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} settextstyle_3}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} settextstyle/3}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} settextstyle}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} settextstyle/3\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx3686 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 gettextsettings}{\v gettextsettings_5}, {\uldb\cf11 settextjustify}{\v settextjustify_2}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b settextstyle}(INTEGER {\i Font, }INTEGER {\i Direction, }INTEGER {\i CharSize})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets the current text characteristics
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b settextstyle} sets the text font, the direction in which text is displayed, and the size of the characters. A call to {\b settextstyle} affects all text output by {\b\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\b\v outtext_1} and {
\b\uldb\cf11 outtextxy}{\b\v outtextxy_3}.
\par The arguments {\i Font, Direction}, and {\i CharSize} passed to {\b settextstyle} have the following meanings:
\par Font: One 8x8 bit-mapped font and several "stroked" fonts are available. The 8x8 bit-mapped font is the default. Constant declarations defined in BGI.PRE provide names for the different font settings, as shown in the following table.
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx1418\tx2127 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 Name\tab Value\tab Description
\par \pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-2127\li2127\tx1701 \f5\fs20 default_FONT\tab 0\tab 8x8 bit-mapped font
\par triplex_FONT\tab 1\tab Stroked triplex font
\par small_FONT\tab 2\tab Stroked small font
\par sansserif_FONT\tab 3\tab Stroked sans-serif font
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-2127\li2127\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1701 gothic_FONT\tab 4\tab Stroked gothic font
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 
The default bit-mapped font is built into the graphics system. Stroked fonts are stored in *.CHR disk files, and only one is kept in memory at a time. Therefore, when you select a stroked font (different from the last selected stroked font), the correspon
ding *.CHR file must be loaded from disk. To avoid this loading when several stroked fonts are used, you can link font files into your program. You do this by registering them using the {\uldb\cf11 bgifont}{\v bgifont_compiler_directive}
 compiler directive.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\i Direction}: Font directions supported are horizontal text (left to right) and vertical text (rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise). The default direction is {\i horiz_DIR}.
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\keep\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp60 \tx993\tx1843 \b\f5\fs20\lang2057 Name\tab Value\tab Description
\par \pard\plain \s25\qj\fi-1843\li1843\tx1276 \f5\fs20 horiz_DIR\tab 0\tab Left to right
\par \pard \s25\qj\fi-1843\li1843\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \tx1276 vert_DIR\tab 1\tab Bottom to top
\par \pard\plain \s32\fi-284\li284\sb120\sa60\tx284\tx567 \f5\fs20 {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i CharSize}: the size of each character can be magnified using the {\i CharSize} factor. If {\i CharSize} is nonzero, it can affect bit-mapped or stroked characters. If {\i 
CharSize} = 0, only stroked characters are affected.
\par \pard \s32\fi-284\li284\sa60\tx284\tx567 {\f1 \'b7\tab }If {\i CharSize} = 1, {\b\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\b\v outtext_1} and {\b\uldb\cf11 outtextxy}{\b\v outtextxy_3}
 will display characters from the 8x8 bit-mapped font in an 8x8 pixel rectangle on the screen.
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }If {\i CharSize} = 2, these output predicates will display characters from the 8x8 bit-mapped font in a 16x16 pixel rectangle; and so on (up to a limit of 10 times the normal size).
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }When {\i CharSize} = 0 (or {\i user_char_SIZE}, a constant defined in BGI.PRE), the output predicates {\b\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\b\v outtext_1} and {\b\uldb\cf11 outtextxy}{\b\v outtextxy_3}
 magnify stroked-font text using either the default character magnification factor (4), or the user-defined character size given by the arguments to {\b\uldb\cf11 setusercharsize}{\b\v setusercharsize_4}.
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Use {\b\uldb\cf11 textheight}{\b\v textheight_2} and {\b\uldb\cf11 textwidth}{\b\v textwidth_2} if you need to determine the actual dimensions of text about to be displayed.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setusercharsize_4}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setusercharsize/4}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setusercharsize}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setusercharsize/4\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2694 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 gettextsettings}{\v gettextsettings_5}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setusercharsize}(INTEGER {\i Multx, }INTEGER {\i Divx, }INTEGER {\i Multy, }INTEGER {\i Divy})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 User-defined character magnification factor for stroked fonts
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setusercharsize} gives you finer control over the size of text from stroked fonts. The values set by {\b setusercharsize} are active only if {\i CharSize} = 0, as set by a previous call to {\b settextstyle}.
\par With {\b setusercharsize}, you specify factors by which the width and height are scaled. The default width is scaled by the ratio {\i Multx:Divx}, and the default height is scaled by {\i Multy:Divy}. For example, to make t
ext twice as wide and 50% taller than the default, set
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 Multx = 2,  Divx = 1,
\par Multy = 3,  Divy = 2,{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Example
\par }\pard\plain \s38\sb120\keep \f11\fs20 include "BGI.PRE"
\par demo :-
\par \pard\plain \s20\fi-567\li851 \f11\fs20 /* Initialize graphics */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 initgraph(detect,0,_,_,""),
\par Title = "TEXT in a BOX",
\par \pard\plain \s20\fi-567\li851 \f11\fs20 /*Draw a rectangle and fit a text string inside */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 settextjustify(center_TEXT, center_TEXT),
\par setusercharsize(1,1,1,1),
\par \pard \s19\li284\keep\tqr\tx5954 settextstyle(triplex_FONT, 
\par \pard\plain \s36\li851\keep \f11\fs20 horiz_DIR,
\par user_char_SIZE),
\par \pard\plain \s20\fi-567\li851 \f11\fs20 /* user_char_SIZE = 0, defined in BGI.PRE */
\par \pard\plain \s19\li284\keep \f11\fs20 textwidth(Title,Width), textheight(Title,Height),
\par setusercharsize(200, Width, 100, Height),
\par settextstyle(triplex_FONT, horiz_DIR, user_char_SIZE),
\par rectangle(0, 0, 200, 100),
\par outtextxy(100, 50, Title),
\par closegraph.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setviewport_5}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setviewport/5}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setviewport}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}
} setviewport/5\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 getviewsettings}{\v getviewsettings_5}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setviewport}(INTEGER {\i Left, }INTEGER {\i Top, }INTEGER {\i Right, }INTEGER {\i Bottom, }INTEGER {\i Clip})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,i,i,i,i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets the current viewport for graphics output
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setviewport} establishes a new viewport for graphics output. The viewport's corners are given in absolute screen coordinates by ({\i Left,Top}) and ({\i Right,Bottom}
). The current position (CP) is moved to viewport (0,0).
\par The argument {\i Clip} determines whether drawings are clipped (truncated) at the current viewport boundaries. If {\i Clip} is nonzero when your program calls {\b setviewport}, all drawings will be clipped to the current viewport.{\b 
\par }Only available on DOS{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 1711\tab Graphics error. Occurs if invalid input is passed to {\b setviewport}. The current view settings will remain unchanged.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setvisualpage_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setvisualpage/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setvisualpage}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`V
IP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setvisualpage/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx2552 \b\f5\fs16 See also: {\uldb\cf11 setactivepage}{\v setactivepage_1}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setvisualpage}(INTEGER {\i Pagenum})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets the visual graphics page number
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setvisualpage} makes page number {\i Pagenum} the visual graphics page--the one shown on-screen.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} setwritemode_1}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} setwritemode/1}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote 
\pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} setwritemode}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} setwritemode/1\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setwritemode}(INTEGER {\i WriteMode})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Sets the writing mode for line drawing
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b setwritemode} specifies how the BGI graphics predicates will draw lines on the screen. If {\i WriteMode}
 = 0, the drawn line's color (pixel value) will overwrite whatever is on the screen; if WriteMode = 1, the drawn line's color will be combined with the color on the screen. BGI.PRE defines two constants you can use for {\i WriteMode}:
\par \pard \s16\fi-1418\li1418\sa120\tx993 {\i CopyPut}\tab = 0\tab overwrites the screen's color with the line's color
\par {\i XORPut}\tab = 1\tab uses an XOR command to combine the line's color with the screen's color{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} textheight_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} textheight/2}} {\cs22\super K{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} textheight}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !} CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}}
 textheight/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 See also}{\v textheight_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b textheight}(STRING {\i Textstring, }INTEGER {\i Height})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the height of a string, in pixels
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b textheight} takes the current font size and multiplic-ation factor, then returns the height of {\i Textstring} (in pixels) in {\i Height}.
\par This predicate is useful for adjusting the spacing between lines, computing viewport heights, sizing a title to make it fit on a graph or in a box, and so on.
\par For example, with the 8x8 bit-mapped font and a multiplication factor of 1 (set by {\b\uldb\cf11 settextstyle}{\b\v settextstyle_3}), the string {\f11 PDCProlog} is 8 pixels high.
\par It is important to use {\b textheight} to compute the height of strings, instead of doing the computations manually. By using this predicate, no source code modifications are required when different fonts are selected.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} textheight_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 gettextsettings}{\b\v gettextsettings_5}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\b\v outtext_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 textwidth}{\b\v textwidth_2}
\par \pard\plain \s28\sa80\keepn\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\*\bkmkstart Fred}\page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} textwidth_2}} {\cs22\super ${\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super $} textwidth/2}} {\cs22\super K
{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super K} textwidth}} {\cs22\super +{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super +} BGI_Predicates} !{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super !}
 CBB ("Overview_btn","JumpId(`VIP.HLP',`The_Borland_Graphics_Interface')")}} textwidth/2\tab BGI graphics
\par \pard\plain \s30\sb40\sa40\keepn\tx1418 \b\f5\fs16 {\ul\cf11 {\*\bkmkend Fred}See also}{\v textwidth_see_also}\tab {\ul\cf11 Portability}{\v Portability}
\par \pard\plain \s17\fi-851\li851\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b textwidth}(STRING {\i Textstring, }INTEGER {\i Width})
\par \pard\plain \s34\fi-1701\li1701\sa120 \f5\fs20\lang2057 {\b Flow pattern}\tab (i,o)
\par \pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 Returns the width of a string, in pixels
\par {\b Remarks
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b textwidth} takes the string length, current font size, and multiplication factor and returns the width of {\i Textstring} (in pixels) in {\i Width}.
\par This predicate is useful for computing viewport widths, sizing a title to make it fit on a graph or in a box, and so on.
\par For example, with the 8x8 bit-mapped font and a multiplication factor of 1 (set by {\b\uldb\cf11 settextstyle}{\b\v settextstyle_3})), the string {\f11 PDCProlog} is 72 pixels wide.
\par It is important to use {\b textwidth} to compute the width of strings, instead of doing the computations manually. By using this predicate, no source code modifications are required when different fonts are selected.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Fail
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 Never fails.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s26\sb120\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b Errors
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 No errors.
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 {\b0 \page }{\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} textwidth_see_also}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 {\b\uldb\cf11 gettextsettings}{\b\v gettextsettings_5}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 outtext}{\b\v outtext_1}
\par {\b\uldb\cf11 textheight}{\b\v textheight_2}
\par \pard\plain \s29\sa120\tx2835 \b\f5\cf2 \page {\cs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s21 \f5\fs20 {\cs22\super #} Portability}} 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sa120 \f5\fs20 In Visual Prolog BGI graphics available only on the DOS platform.
\par {\revised\revauth17\revdttm-2047518179 
\par }} 
